Pat. &amp; Trademark Off. R. 116 provides that the parties to an interference will be presumed to have made their inventions in the chronological order in which they filed their completed applications for patents clearly disclosing same; and the burden of proof will rest upon the party who shall seek to establish a different state of facts. The termination of the interference by dissolution under Pat. &amp; Trademark Off. R. 122 without an award of priority shall not disturb this presumption, and a party enjoying the status of a senior party with respect to any subject-matter of his application shall not be deprived of any claim to such subject-matter solely on the ground that such claim was not added to the interference by amendment under Pat. &amp; Trademark Off. R. 109.
It is well settled that nothing described in letters patent is secured thereby unless it is secured by a claim. The claims alone express the monopoly.
The Patent Act states that whoever actively induces infringement of a patent shall be liable as an infringer. 35 U.S.C.S. ? 271(b). A defendant induces infringement when it encourages another entity to infringe on a patent while knowing that the act constitutes infringement.
When determining a reasonable royalty rate, a court first looks for an established royalty applicable to the patent at issue. Where an established royalty rate for patented inventions is shown to exist, that rate will usually be adopted as the best measure of reasonable and entire compensation. A court may, for example, adopt a royalty rate if a substantial number of licensees in a relevant market have considered it reasonable.
Determining infringement is a two-step process. The first step is to determine the meaning and scope of the patent claim asserted to be infringed. The second step is to compare the allegedly infringing device to the properly construed claim. A finding of infringement requires that every limitation of a claim be met in the accused device either exactly or by an equivalent. To demonstrate infringement, a plaintiff therefore must show that every limitation in at least one of its independent claims is present in the accused device. The defendant, on the other hand, need only show that one of the limitations is not present in the accused device in order to prevail on its summary judgment motion for non-infringement. In cases where literal infringement is not established, infringement may be proved under the doctrine of equivalents.
35 U.S.C.S. ? 281 provides that a patentee shall have remedy by civil action for infringement of his patent. Pursuant to 35 U.S.C.S. ? 100(d), the word "patentee" includes not only the patentee to whom the patent was issued but also the successors in title to the patentee.
For patentability determinations, if a new use be so nearly analogous to the former one, that the applicability of the device to its new use would occur to a person of ordinary mechanical skill, it is only a case of double use, but if the relations between them be remote, and especially if the use of the old device produce a new result, it may at least involve an exercise of the inventive faculty. Much, however, must still depend upon the nature of the changes required to adapt the device to its new use.
In determining whether an accused device or composition infringes a valid patent, resort must be had in the first instance to the words of the claim. It is settled that infringement is determined by comparison with the patentee's claimed invention, not with its marketed product.
Whether a claimed invention is obvious must be evaluated from the perspective of a hypothetical person of ordinary skill in the art. In determining what constitutes ordinary skill in the art, a court may consider (1) the types of problems encountered in the art; (2) the prior art solutions to those problems; (3) the rapidity with which innovations are made; (4) the sophistication of the technology; and (5) the educational level of active workers in the field. The hypothetical person of ordinary skill in the art is presumed to be aware of all analogous prior art.
Only the issuance of a patent gives an inventor the right to exclude others from appropriating his invention, and that for only a limited time.  35 U.S.C.S. ? 154.
The purchaser of a patented article has the rights of any owner of personal property, including the right to use it, repair it, modify it, discard it, or resell it, subject only to the overriding conditions of the sale. Thus, patented articles, when sold, become the private individual property of the purchasers and are no longer specifically protected by the patent laws. This implied license covers both the original purchaser of the article and all subsequent purchasers. The rights of ownership do not include the right to construct an essentially new article on the template of the original.
In a situation where it appears that an employer has made a substantial investment in an invention conceived by an employee, and that the inventor has consented to the employer's use of the invention, the employer has a shop right in the invention. This is so even though the invention is conceived on the employee's own time.
Prosecution history is considered part of the intrinsic evidence available in evaluating a patent. It includes not only the complete record of proceedings before the patent office, but also the prior art cited during the examination of the patent. Although it is proper to consider the prosecution history, because the prosecution history represents an ongoing negotiation between the patent office and an applicant, it often lacks clarity and thus is less useful for claim construction purposes. Even so, the prosecution history can inform the court's inquiry by demonstrating how the inventor understood the invention and whether the inventor limited the invention in the course of prosecution, making the claim scope narrower than it would otherwise be.
A patent applicant should not be permitted to claim in a new application that which was contained in an original application and cancelled upon being rejected as defining nothing inventive over the invention of the other claims therein. The applicant's acquiescence in the rejection and cancellation of the claims amounts to a binding admission that the inventions are the same.
If the method of a claim can be performed by any other apparatus than that of the applicant, or if it can be performed by hand, it cannot be said that the claim recites the mere function of the apparatus so as to make its allowance double patenting.
At the time of the repeal of 35 U.S.C.S. ? 38, the Congress, realizing that the provisions of 35 U.S.C.S. ? 38, then in force, prohibited the issuance of patents on forfeited applications, added the proviso to that section which authorizes the Commissioner of Patents, in his discretion, to issue a patent on a forfeited application, provided the final fee is paid within one year after forfeiture. It is clear, therefore, that the Congress was fully aware of the fact that the first part of 35 U.S.C.S. ? 38, so far as it prohibited the issuance of patents, applied solely to forfeited applications.
It is a longstanding principle of claim construction that the words of a claim must be given their ordinary and customary meaning. The ordinary and customary meaning of a claim term is the meaning that the term would have to a person of ordinary skill in the art in question at the time of invention.
Evidence of invention may be established by oral testimony alone. However, this doctrine, in the final analysis, means only that when oral testimony alone is doctrine to prove the facts necessary to establish priority such testimony will be most carefully scrutinized, in the light of human experience and under such knowledge of human nature as the courts possess, and that all circumstances surrounding the transaction will be most carefully looked to in bringing the mind to a conclusion as to what the truth really is.
Under the Franks procedure for challenging the truthfulness of statements made in an application for search warrant, a defendant must first make a substantial preliminary showing that a false statement was knowingly or intentionally made, or was made with reckless disregard for the truth. If defendant makes such a showing, and the misstatement was necessary to a finding of probable cause, a hearing must be held at defendant's request. When a hearing is held, the allegation of perjury or reckless disregard must be proved by defendant by a preponderance of the evidence. Once proved, the offending information must be excised from the warrant application. If after the egregious material is excised, the remaining content is insufficient to establish probable cause, the search warrant must be voided and the fruits of the search excluded.
Alternate jurors in Tennessee are selected in the same manner as the regular jurors and that they hear the same evidence presented during the guilt phase of the trial that the regular members of the jury hear.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 542.276.3 (1994) addresses supporting affidavits and provides that such affidavit shall be considered in determining whether there is probable cause for the issuance of a search warrant.
Petitioner has the burden of overcoming this fact and proving that his early release from sentence would not present a danger to the public and would not be incompatible with the welfare of society.
A person who knowingly obtains or exercises control over property without the owner's effective consent with the intent to deprive the owner of the property commits theft.  Tenn. Code Ann. ? 39-14-103. A theft of property having a value of at least $ 1,000, but less than $ 10,000, is a Class D felony.  Tenn. Code Ann. ? 39-14-105(3).
The admission or exclusion of evidence lies within the sound discretion of the trial court and is afforded great deference on appeal. An appellate court will reverse the trial court's ruling on the admissibility of evidence only for an abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion occurs where the trial court's decision is clearly against the logic and effect of the facts and circumstances before it. In reviewing the admissibility of evidence, the appellate court considers only the evidence in favor of the trial court's ruling and any unrefuted evidence in the defendant's favor.
Judicial overreaching is conduct that is egregious rather than merely error. Conduct that is intended to prompt a mistrial request by the defendant or is intended to harass or prejudice the defendant characterizes judicial overreaching.
Pa. R. Crim. P. 1100(d)(3)(i) provides that in determining the period for commencement of trial, there shall be excluded therefrom such periods of delay at any stage of the proceeding as results from the unavailability of the defendant or his attorney.
A defendant is entitled to an instruction on a lesser included offense only if there is an evidentiary basis for both acquittal for the greater offense and conviction for the lesser offense.
Strategic decisions do not in themselves give rise to a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. An appellate court will not second guess an attorney on matters of strategy.
The decision of whether or not to cross-examine a witness is a tactical one. Absent a showing of some helpful fact which clearly could - and should - have been developed on cross-examination, such decisions do not warrant a finding of ineffective assistance of counsel.
The state carries the burden in criminal cases of proving each element of the charged crime beyond a reasonable doubt. In cases relying on constructive possession, that burden entails a presentation of extensive and detailed facts. Lack of such evidence may well make it impossible for the state to fulfill its duty to establish, beyond a reasonable doubt, the necessary nexus between a defendant and the contraband; any significant deficiency in evidence establishing the nexus almost always leaves room for those reasonable hypotheses of innocence which necessarily raise a reasonable doubt as to the defendant's guilt.
Under Missouri law, the jury's role in the sentencing process has been preserved and enhanced in our system dealing with capital murder. The capital murder statutes deal only and particularly with that non-code crime and its discrete trial and sentencing procedures. Nothing in our law contemplates that capital murder's unique trial and sentencing mechanism be applicable to any other crime. In contrast, ? 557.036.2 addresses itself in broad terms to sentencing procedures in general.
Assignments of error in instructing the jury do not present anything for review upon appeal where a defendant does not object to the instructions at the time they are given and read to the jury. Mo. R. Crim. P. 28.01 and 3.21.
In order to establish a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must show both 1) that counsel's representations fell below an objective standard of reasonableness, and 2) that there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. A movant's failure to prove either prong by a preponderance of the evidence will prove fatal to the claim. However, there exists a strong presumption that counsel's actions not only fall within a wide range of accepted professional conduct, but are purposeful and strategic, absent evidence to the contrary. Allegations that are entirely conclusory are legally insufficient to prove ineffective assistance of counsel.
When reviewing the denial of a post-conviction motion, the appellate court will not disturb a trial court's finding of fact unless found to be clearly erroneous. In order to resolve the merits of allegations under the Mississippi Post-Conviction Collateral Relief Act, the trial judge must review the original motion, together with all the files, records, transcripts, and correspondence relating to the judgment under attack. 11 11 Miss. Code Ann. ? 99-39- 11(1) (Rev. 2000).
That the evidence used to convict is circumstantial does not alter the requirement that the appellate court view the evidence upon conviction in a manner most favorable to support the verdict.
When a question of the sufficiency of evidence is presented on appeal in a criminal case, the only question for an appellate court is whether the evidence adduced, believed and rationally considered by a jury, was sufficient to prove a defendants' guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
The Tennessee Post-Conviction Procedure Act of 1995 contemplates the filing of only one petition for post-conviction relief. In no event may more than one petition for post-conviction relief be filed attacking a single judgment. If a prior petition has been filed which was resolved on the merits by a court of competent jurisdiction, any second or subsequent petition shall be summarily dismissed. Tenn. Code Ann. ? 40-30-102(c) (2003).
To show ineffective assistance of counsel, an appellant must demonstrate that counsel's representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness and that a reasonable probability exists that the outcome would have been different but for counsel's errors. A strong presumption exists that counsel's performance fell within a wide range of reasonable assistance. Moreover, particular deference is given to the decisions of counsel regarding trial strategy: Which witnesses to call at trial and what information to present to the jury are questions that lie within the proper discretion of the trial counsel.
Minn. Stat. ? 237.075(3) (1983) provides:If, at the time of its final determination, the commission finds that the interim rates are in excess of the rates in the final determination, the commission shall order the company to refund the excess amount collected under the interim rate schedule.
The Wyoming Supreme Court has cautioned the Wyoming Public Service Commission that it is not authorized to meddle in the private sector's contractual affairs.
The questions of "cost of equity" and "rate of return" are matters which raise extremely complicated issues. Deciding these questions is a function of the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and these questions are within the Commission's area of expertise. The Commission has the power and the duty to set rates of return within a broad zone of reasonableness.
Under the United States statutes governing the location of mines, and the acquirements of patents therefor, the locator has one year from the first day of January succeeding the date of his location in which to perform his first annual work: U.S. Rev. Stat. ? 2324, as amended January 22, 1880, U.S. Rev. Stat. Supp. 276.
A district may be organized to engage only in the electric light and power business, or only in the business of owning and operating irrigation works, or to be engaged in both of said businesses, 1937 Neb. Laws 152, ? 3, Neb. Rev. Stat. ? 70-604 (1943).
Some deference to management judgment is, of course, proper in a rate review action. The commission may not, however, defer to bald assertions by management. This is so particularly when more compelling evidence, in the form of economic and statistical analyses and comparisons of the type which can be committed to record and be available for analysis by the commission and by a reviewing court, can be developed at reasonable cost.
An entity must be a party in interest to be entitled to apply for rehearing. Md. Code Ann., Pub. Util. Cos. ? 3-114(c)(1) (1998). To be a "party in interest," the entity must first have acquired the status of "party" by having timely sought, and been granted, the right to intervene. Md. Code Ann., Pub. Util. Cos. ? 3-106(a) (1998). A "party in interest," in context and as used in Md. Code Ann., Pub. Util. Cos. ? 3-114(c)(1), actually is a more restrictive term than "party."
In determining the adequacy of a rate, a public utility is entitled to a fair return on the present value of its property which is used and useful in serving the Oklahoma public ratepayers.
No location of a mining claim shall be made until the discovery of the vein or lode within the limits of the claim located. Idaho Rev. Stat. ? 2320 (1872).
The limitation that a utility's use of private land must not injuriously interrupt the navigation of waters or interfere with the convenience of any land owner more than is unavoidable, is a limitation on franchise rights rather than on the power of condemnation.
The court follows the generally recognized rule that in the absence of statute making a service charge a lien on the premises, a new customer cannot be denied service because some former customer is delinquent, nor a tenant denied service because his landlord may be in arrears; nor can payment of such arrears be required as a condition to such service.
In several cases, the court has disapproved cancellation of an oil and gas lease when the lessee demonstrated a willingness to investigate or test for other producing formations.
Carrying a different rate or subjecting a telegraph company to a different degree of responsibility, a uniform schedule of rates and charges for such service and the regulations pertinent thereto should be filed with the public utilities commission and subject to its approval. Such rates and service are invalid until they are so filed and when formally promulgated they may not be departed from with impunity. Kan. Gen. Stat. ?? 8398, 8400, 8416 (1915).
Or. Rev. Stat. ? 757.310(1) provides, in part: (1) Except as provided in ? 757.315, no public utility or any agent or officer thereof shall, directly or indirectly, by any device, charge, demand, collect or receive from any person a greater or less compensation for any service rendered or to be rendered by it than: (a) That prescribed in the public schedules or tariffs then in force or established; or (b) It charges, demands, collects or receives from any other person for a like and contemporaneous service under substantially similar circumstances. (c) Any utility violating this section is guilty of unjust discrimination.
Wis. Stat. ? 196.01 defines the relationship between the public service commission and public utilities; it is that relationship which gives the commission the familiarity and expertise necessary to value utility facilities.
Pooling and spacing are separate concepts, and a spacing order alone without a pooling order does not operate as a de facto pooling of all fractional interests. N.D. Cent. Code ? 38-08-08 provides: When two or more separately owned tracts are within a spacing unit, or when there are separately owned interests in the spacing unit, the owners and royalty owners may pool their interests for development and operation of the spacing unit. In the absence of voluntary pooling, the Commission upon the application of any interested person shall enter an order pooling all interests in the spacing unit for the development and operations thereof. Each such pooling order shall be made after notice and hearing, and shall be upon conditions that are just and reasonable, and that afford to the owner of each interest in the spacing unit the opportunity to recover or receive, without unnecessary expense, his just share. Operations incident to the drilling of a well upon any portion of a spacing unit covered by a pooling order shall be deemed, for all purposes, the conduct of such operations upon each separately owned tract in the drilling unit by the several owners. That portion of production allocated to each tract included in a spacing unit covered by a pooling order shall, when produced, be deemed for all purposes to have been produced from such tract by a well drilled thereon. ?38-08-08(1).
What is intended by the use of the term "system" or "general system" of work means simply this: That the work, as it is commenced on the ground, is such that, if continued, will lead to a discovery and development of the veins or ore bodies that are supposed to be in the claims, or, if these are known, that the work will facilitate the extraction of the ores and mineral.
N.M. Stat. Ann. ? 62-9-1 (2000) is part of a comprehensive regulatory scheme granting the public regulation commission the policy-making authority to plan and coordinate the activities of New Mexico public utilities, in a manner consistent with the legislature's stated goals.
Wis. Stat. ? 196.02 (4) provides: The Public Service Commission shall have authority to inquire into the management of the business of all public utilities, and shall keep itself informed as to the manner and method in which the same is conducted, and may obtain from any public utility all necessary information to enable the commission to perform its duties.
A public service corporation cannot refuse to furnish its public service because the patron is in arrears with it on account of some collateral or independent transaction, not strictly connected with the particular physical service.
The entire "Clean Water Act" is located at chapter 26 of 33 U.S.C.S. ?? 1251-1376 and is titled "Water Pollution Prevention and Control."
Tenn. Code Ann. ? 68-211-701 (1989) provides for approval by either a county or a city or both where a proposed solid waste facility is to be located in an incorporated municipality. Specifically, Tenn. Code Ann. ? 68-211-701 (1995) states in part that no construction shall be initiated for any new landfill for solid waste disposal or for solid waste processing until the plans for such new landfill have been submitted to and approved by: (2) both the county legislative body and the governing body of the municipality in which the proposed landfill is located, if such new construction is located in an incorporated area.
Carver County, Minn., Zoning Code ? 152.251 (2002) provides that an order for the issuance of a conditional use permit can be adopted only if all of the ten listed criteria are found as fact.
Nashville, Tenn., Ordinance No. 089-684, ? 1 provides as follows: the director of public property administration and his designee are authorized to acquire by negotiation or condemnation the right to enter upon and to conduct core drilling, soil sampling, and other activities that are similarly limited in nature which are necessary for the investigation of EDGe Group site numbers 11, 14, 17, and 18 for land disposal of solid waste, on, in, and about the sites generally described and set out in exhibit A attached hereto, the same being a document prepared by the EDGe Group, said acquisition being for a public purpose and the public convenience requiring it. Exhibit A to the ordinance contains a numbered listing of properties by map and parcel number, size, ownership, and location for each of the four sites, followed by a topographical map of each of the four sites with the "footprint" drawn thereon. Some of the properties contain on the numbered listing of properties are located totally outside of the areas shown on the topographical map as the "footprint." The "footprints" are a mechanism to identify the parcels which would be examined by core drilling testing and are not intended to limit the area over which core drilling would be conducted.
Or. Admin. R. 345-50-060 provides that in order to issue a site certificate for a waste disposal facility, the Energy Facility Siting Council must find that the site is suitable for disposal of such wastes, and the amount thereof, intended for disposal at the site. A site will be considered suitable if it can be designed to prevent dispersal of the waste due to a 100-year flood, as estimated and mapped by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the wind and water erosion to be reasonably expected at the site.
Wis. Stat. ? 144.44(7)(g) must be read in the context of a broad, comprehensive waiver and exemption plan. The court reads ? 144.44(7)(c) to provide the Department of Natural Resources with authority to encourage research and development while ? 144.44(7)(g) is the Department's "action" authority.
The following four criteria must be met before the Rhode Island Coastal Resources Management Council can grant an application under Category A: (1) the goals, policies, prerequisites, and standards of the Rhode Island Coastal Resources Management Program that apply to the areas and activities in question are met; (2) all buffer zone and setback requirements as contained in 04 000 R.I. Code R. ?? 140 and 150 are met; (3) substantive objections are not raised by abutters of those Category A applications sent out to public notice, the Council members have not raised objections, or the Council's Executive Director has not made a determination that the Category A activity in question is more appropriately reviewed as a Category B activity; and (4) proof of certification of compliance with all applicable state and local statutes, ordinances, and regulations is provided. 04 000 R.I. Code R. ? 110.1.
An environmental assessment must provide evidence and analysis for the determination of whether to prepare an environmental impact statement or finding of no significant impact, and must include brief discussions of the need for the proposal, of alternatives, of the environmental impacts of the proposed action and alternatives, and a listing of agencies and persons consulted.  40 C.F.R. ? 1508.9(b). The National Environmental Policy Act prescribes several guidelines for agencies to follow in order to adequately carry out the policies of the act.
Ordinances that attempt to prevent the adverse secondary effects of adult uses are content-neutral regulations that advance a substantial government interest. A city need not demonstrate secondary effects within its own experience, but instead may rely on studies conducted by other cities, so long as the studies are reasonably believed to be relevant to the problem that the city addresses.
The court has found it inherently unreasonable to limit consideration of alternative waste disposal sites to arbitrary geographical boundaries where the potential benefits and risks of the proposed facility will impact a multi-parish, if not a multi-state region.
A landfill no longer in use must be sealed or closed in accordance with Miss. Nonhazardous Waste Management Reg. No. PC/S-1, ? D. Such regulations were promulgated pursuant to ? 17-17-27 of the Solid Waste Disposal Law of 1974, which authorizes the Department of Environmental Quality to adopt such rules and regulations as may be needed to specify methodology and procedures to meet the requirements of this chapter. Miss. Nonhazardous Waste Management Reg. No. PC/S, ? D-19 provides, in part: A final cover of at least two feet of earthen material, compacted in layers of no more than 12 inches, shall be placed over the entire surface of each completed portion of the fill within 30 days after completion unless inclement weather prevents the application of dry cover material. The top six inches of final cover shall consist of a suitable topsoil which will sustain the growth of vegetation except where otherwise authorized by the Bureau of Pollution Control. The final cover gradient on top of the fill shall not normally exceed four percent, to prevent the ponding of water on the landfill surface and minimize infiltration of water into the landfill. Erosion on intermediate or final cover shall be repaired by restoring the cover material and grading and compacting it as necessary to prevent ponding of water.
When a ? 401 Certification is issued, no separate permit for construction in navigable waters is required. Instead, the 401 Certification serves as the construction permit. Before the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control may issue the permit, however, the staff reviewing the certification application is required to coordinate with the Construction in Navigable Waters Permitting staff to insure that the regulatory requirements for the construction permit are met. S.C. Code Ann. Regs. 19-450.3(G).
Phased actions are multiple projects to be undertaken by the same proposer that will have environmental effects on the same geographic area and are substantially certain to be undertaken sequentially over a limited period of time. Minn. R. 4410.0200, subp. 60. The rules require a responsible governmental unit (RGU) to consider phased actions in determining whether environmental assessment worksheet (EAW) thresholds are met. Minn. R. 4410.4300, subp. 1.
Water resources are defined as including not only water itself but also aquatic life and habitats therein and all other natural resources in and under the waters of this state.  Or. Rev. Stat. ? 541.605(11).
Wis. Stat. ?? 281.11, 281.12 explain, inter alia, that the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) shall have general supervision and control over the waters of the state and shall carry out the planning, management and regulatory programs necessary for implementing the policy and purpose of Wis. Stat. ch. 281. ? 281.12(1). The policy and purpose section states that the DNR shall serve as the central unit of state government to protect, maintain and improve the quality and management of the waters of the state, ground and surface, public and private. The purpose of this subchapter is to grant necessary powers and to organize a comprehensive program under a single state agency for the enhancement of the quality management and protection of all waters of the state, ground and surface, public and private. To the end that these vital purposes may be accomplished, this subchapter shall be liberally construed in favor of the policy objectives set forth in this subchapter. ? 281.11.
It is not optional with counties whether to invoke the planning measures that Or. Rev. Stat. ? 527.726(1) describes when the invocation of those measures is necessary for the counties to comply with land use statutes or goals. Compliance with those statutes and goals is mandatory. Or. Rev. Stat. ? 527.726(1) cannot be construed as simply giving the counties discretion to do what other statutes require of them.
One portion of a statute may be unconstitutional and void and the remainder of it be upheld as constitutional and valid if the unconstitutional portion is severable and wholly independent of the remainder of the act and furnished no special inducement for the passage of the rest of the act and where a presumption is reasonably justified that the legislature would have passed the remainder of the act without the invalid portion.
Because licenses to sell beer and operate a private club are not property rights but are privileges granted by the state for a specified time, license applicants must meet the statutory guidelines and the Commissioner of the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control Commission's rules and regulations. W. Va. Code ? 11-16-8(c) (1990) provides the following grounds for the refusal of a beer license: The Commissioner may refuse a license to any applicant under the provisions of this article if the commissioner shall be of the opinion: (1) that the applicant is not a suitable person to be licensed; (2) that the place to be occupied by the applicant is not a suitable place; or is within three hundred feet of any school or church; or (3) that the license should not be issued for reason of conduct declared to be unlawful by this article.
The courts look at the construction placed on the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure by the Federal courts in order to interpret the Alabama Rules of Civil Procedure, because the Alabama rules are based on, and are in a large part an adaptation of, the Federal rules. While the federal interpretation is persuasive, it is not binding.
A vague law impermissibly delegates basic policy matters to policemen, judges, and juries for resolution on an ad hoc and subjective basis, with the attendant dangers of arbitrary and discriminatory application.
Minn. Stat. ? 490.124, subd. 2 was amended in 1981, at which time several minor changes were made. 1981 Minn. Laws ch. 224, ? 230. Pursuant to the law as amended, a judge applying for an extension is required to state his intention to retire upon attaining eligibility to receive a retirement allowance, and the governor shall extend the term of office as may be necessary to make the judge eligible for retirement.
It is a well-settled principle that the primary objective of statutory interpretation is to ascertain and effectuate the intention of the legislature. The first step in this inquiry is to examine the plain language of the statute, and, if the words of the statute, construed according to their common and everyday meaning, are clear and unambiguous and express a plain meaning, effect will be given to the statute as it is written. Thus, where the statutory language is plain and free from ambiguity, and expresses a definite and simple meaning, courts do not normally look beyond the words of the statute itself to determine legislative intent. Furthermore, words may not be added to, or removed from, an unambiguous statute in order to give it a meaning not reflected by the words the legislature chose to use.
Pursuant to Minn. Const. art. 9, ? 5, the state shall never contract any debts for works of internal improvements, or be a party in carrying on such works, except as authorized by Minn. Const. art. 16.
A collateral attack upon the proceedings of the corporate officers of a town does not lie because of defects or irregularities which do not affect the jurisdiction of the board.
It is one thing for County Trustees to have the power to incur obligations for work actually done in behalf of the county, and to give proper vouchers therefor, and a totally different thing to have the power of issuing unimpeachable paper obligations, which may be multiplied to an indefinite extent. If it be conceded that counties have an implied power to issue coupon bonds payable at a future day, which may be valid and binding obligations in the hands of innocent purchasers, there will be no end to the frauds that will be perpetrated.
In construing a statute, an appellate court's principal role is to determine and give meaning to the intent of the general assembly, looking first to the language of the statute. Words and phrases must be given effect in accordance with their plain and ordinary meanings. If the language is facially clear and with reasonable certainty the intent may be discerned, it is not necessary to resort to other rules of statutory interpretation.
The void-for-vagueness doctrine requires that a penal statute define the criminal offense with sufficient definiteness that ordinary people can understand what conduct is prohibited and in a manner that does not encourage arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement.
A court's function in construing a statute is to give effect to the Rhode Island General Assembly's intent. The court must presume that the General Assembly intended to attach significance to every word, sentence and provision of a statute. When a statute is clear and unambiguous, there is no room for statutory construction, and the statute will be literally applied, attributing the plain and ordinary meaning to its words.
The sheriff's office is an elective office of the county, as is also the office of a county commissioner, and is a coordinate office or branch of our county government. His powers and duties are prescribed by statute and are similar to those generally prescribed by other western states. In performing them, he, generally speaking, acts independently of the board of county commissioners except as otherwise restricted and specified by statute. Except by and with the consent of the board of county commissioners he may not make a binding or completed appointment of a deputy or deputies, and until such consent is had and such deputy has taken the oath of office, he, in law, is not a deputy and may not act or perform official functions or offices as such.
The petition to implement a grievance panel action does not serve to initiate a grievance or toll the limitation for doing so.
Utah Code Ann. ? 78-12-36, which tolls limitations periods for minors generally, specifically excludes actions for the recovery of real property.
The title of an act amendatory of a law, in force and effect at the time of the enactment of the amendatory act, giving the number of the section of the original law designated to be amended, is sufficient notice to the legislature and to the public as reasonably to lead to an inquiry into the body of the bill to ascertain what changes are proposed in the original or existing law; and anything germane to the general subject, expressed in the title of the original existing law, or that could have been included in the original and existing law under its general title may be included in any subsequent act amendatory of the then existing law.
Under N.D. Cent. Code ? 32-44-01(2), "agricultural product" is defined under that chapter as any plant or animal, or the product of a plant or animal, grown, raised, distributed, or sold for a commercial purpose; the term also includes any agricultural practices used in the production of such products. That definition of an "agricultural product" includes livestock and turkeys within its scope.
References to the "county court" in statutes have been variously construed by the court to apply in some cases to the court presided over by the county judge and in other cases to the quarterly session of the justices of the peace, according to the subject-matter of the legislation construed and the conclusion of the court as to the intention of the legislature, in the light of other statutes and the underlying division of jurisdiction between the quarterly sessions and the monthly sessions.
In the context of the statute of limitations, a history of chemical dependency, treatment, and commitment, without more, is insufficient to show incapacity to toll for a disability under Minn. Stat. ? 541.15(a)(2) (2000).
Mo. Const. art. IV, ? 53, para. 18 prohibits the Missouri General Assembly from passing local or special law regulating the practice or jurisdiction of, or changing the rules of evidence in any judicial proceeding or inquiry before courts, etc.
Section 2165 of Utah Revised Statutes makes it the duty of a court to judge of an applicant's moral character from his conduct in evidence, as well as of his attachment to the constitution and his disposition towards the good order, happiness, and welfare of the people.
Ever since 1825, an alien might hold land in Missouri, and dispose of the same, who had declared his intention of becoming a citizen of the United States by taking the necessary oaths, and the like. Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 128 (1825).
Section 4340(d) of the Commonwealth Entry and Deportation Act provides for the deportation of an alien if the alien is convicted of a felony, or two or more misdemeanors, or any crime of moral turpitude, or any firearms control offense. Hence, aliens are the only category of convicted persons that may be deported from the Commonwealth under Commonwealth Entry and Deportation Act. The term "alien" is defined as a person who is not or will not become a citizen or national of the United States as defined by United States law or in the Constitution of the Northern Mariana Islands, or who is not a citizen of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Northern Mariana Islands, or who is not a permanent resident. 3 N. Mar. I. Code ? 4303(a).
Under 8 U.S.C.S. ?1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), any non-citizen convicted of an "aggravated felony" is deportable and shall, upon the order of the Attorney General, be removed or deported. Under this statute, an aggravated felony includes any illicit trafficking in a controlled substance including a drug trafficking crime (as defined in 18 U.S.C.S. ? 924(c)). 8 U.S.C.S. ?1101(a)(43)(B). And the term "drug trafficking crime" means any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act. 18 U.S.C.S. ?924(c)(2).
8 U.S.C.S. ? 1254(a) allows the Attorney General of the United States to modify the immigration status of an otherwise deportable alien, and, moreover, the plain language of ? 1254(a) requires the Board of Immigration Appeals to consider the hardship to a citizen child of a deportable alien, and extreme hardship to that child alone may justify suspension of deportation.
The minor children of aliens, though born out of the United States, if dwelling within the United States at the time of the naturalization of the parents, become citizens by virtue of the naturalization of the parents.
8 U.S.C.S. ? 1324(a)(1)(A)(ii) criminalizes knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that an alien has come to, entered, or remains in the United States in violation of law, transporting, or moving or attempting to transport or move such alien within the United States by means of transportation or otherwise, in furtherance of such violation of law.
Where there is no evidence that an applicant for United States' citizenship had ever had any interest in politics or government; that he had never engaged in any project related to the promotion of the Second World War; expressed any pleasure over the success of the American arms or concern over their reverses, such evidence warrants the doubts of the court and any determination following the rule of the federal decisions setting standards for admission.
Children of citizens of the United States who are born in foreign countries are citizens of the United States. The citizenship of the child is determined by that of the father, and though the latter reside in another country the child will be a citizen of this if the father has not forfeited or surrendered his allegiance thereto.
The Vienna Convention, as ratified by the United States and Mexico, states: If the arrestee so requests, the competent authorities of the receiving State shall, without delay, inform the consular post of the sending State if, within its consular district, a national of that State is arrested or committed to prison or to custody pending trial or is detained in any other manner. Any communication addressed to the consular post by the person arrested, in prison, custody or detention shall also be forwarded by the said authorities without delay. The said authorities shall inform the person concerned without delay of his rights under this sub-paragraph.
Controlling immigration is a compelling state interest. For reasons including the population and size disparity between the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) and the rest of the United States and preservation of the CNMI's unique Chamorro and Carolinian ethnic and cultural heritage, the CNMI was permitted to exercise plenary authority over its own immigration.
By the treaty of peace of 1783, Great Britain and the United States became respectively entitled as against each other, to the allegiance of all persons who were at the time adhering to the governments respectively; and that those persons became alien to the government to which they did not belong. Those who impute alienage in a case must show that the alien adhered to the British crown in the contest. For such adherence, his residence being at that time within the United States, and not his foreign birth, would constitute him an alien, and upon those who impute alienage rests the burthen of proving such adherence.
"Permanently residing" means a residence of continuing or lasting nature, as distinguished from temporary, even though eventually it may be dissolved at the instance of either the United States or the individual in accordance with law.
The objective of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 is to discourage illegal immigration by prohibiting the employment of unauthorized aliens. 8 U.S.C.S. ? 1324(a)(1)(A). Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 forcefully made combating the employment of illegal aliens central to the policy of immigration law.
An alien's ability to secure reopening depends on a demonstration of prima facie eligibility for relief, which means she must show a "realistic chance" that she will be able to obtain such relief.
There is a protected property interest in unpaid repatriation expenses in the limited case where a transfer employer fails to comply with a transfer order that requires payment of a transfer employee's repatriation expenses.
8 U.S.C.S. ? 1324 codifies several discrete immigration offenses, including: (1) bringing an alien to the United States; (2) transporting or moving an illegal alien within the United States; (3) harboring or concealing an illegal alien within the United States; and (4) encouraging or inducing an illegal alien to enter or reside in the United States.
An undocumented alien is chargeable with at least two crimes--entry into the United States at an improper time or place, 8 U.S.C.S. ? 1325 (1982)1982-01-01, and willful failure to register, 8 U.S.C.S. ?? 1302, 1306.
The immigration statutes provide that the Attorney General may cancel removal of an alien who meets certain residency requirements and has not been convicted of any aggravated felony. 8 U.S.C.S. ? 1229b(a)(3). For immigration and naturalization purposes, aggravated felony includes a crime of violence, as defined in 18 U.S.C.S. ? 16, but not including a purely political offense, for which the term of imprisonment is least one year. U.S.C.S. 1101(a)(43(F).
After the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act was passed on September 30, 1996, either transitional or permanent rules apply to immigration proceedings, depending on their timing. The transitional rules govern those proceedings that commence before April 1, 1997, and conclude more than 30 days after the statute's passage.
Under the Patent Office Rules, there are two ways which a patent, the application for which antedates the application of an applicant, can be overcome as a prior-art reference: 1) If the patent discloses but does not claim the invention claimed by the applicant, the applicant may make an affidavit under Pat. &amp; Trademark Off. R. 75 showing that he was the prior inventor; or 2) If the patent claims the invention claimed by the applicant, the applicant may make an affidavit under Pat. &amp; Trademark Off. R. 94 alleging that he made the invention before the filing date of the patentee, and asking that an interference be declared.
A patent is a property in a notion, and has no corporal, tangible substance, and cannot be levied on and sold under execution issuing from state courts; and whether it can be sold on executions issuing from the federal courts is regarded as doubtful. Until its usefulness has been established, the value of a patent right is purely speculative.
In the absence of circumstances showing a special undertaking by a telegraph company to put a message through at night, the mere receipt of the message by an agent of the telegraph company at the receiving office out of reasonable office hours does not entail the duty of prompt delivery until the arrival of the regular hour for opening the office.
Section 5511 Burns 1894 (Indiana) provides that every telegraph company with a line of wires wholly or partly within the state, and engaged in doing a general telegraphic business, shall, during the usual office hours, receive dispatches, whether from other telegraph lines, or other companies, or individuals, and shall, upon the usual terms, transmit the same with impartiality and in good faith, and in the order of time in which they are received, and shall in no manner discriminate in rates charged, or words or figures charged for, or manner or conditions of service between any of its patrons, but shall serve individuals, corporations and other telegraphic companies with impartiality, provided, however, that arrangements may be made with the publishers of newspapers for transmission of intelligence of general and public interest out of its order, and that communication for and from officers of justice shall take precedence of all others.
The public is entitled to the best, most convenient and least expensive telephone service available. A telephone utility cannot be compelled to comply with the terms of an agreement with another telephone company, in violation of this public right.
Mo. Rev. Stat. 392.200 (1969), is the general section of the chapter relative to telephone and telegraph company prescribing requirements for adequate instrumentalities and facilities, adequate service, just and reasonable charges, prohibitions against unreasonable preference or unjust discrimination and similar responsibilities relative to telephone company operation and service.
The Telecommunications Act establishes an interconnection agreement as the mechanism through which local exchange carriers can satisfy their obligations under ? 251. 47 U.S.C.S. ? 251(c)(1).
Courts commonly hold that the use of a recording system to manage and monitor the quality of telephone calls meets the ordinary use prong of the telephone equipment exception in Md. Code Ann., Cts. &amp; Jud. Proc. ? 10-401(4) (1998 &amp; Cum. Supp. 2000).
From the nature of a telephone company's business and field of operations, it must be regarded as a common carrier of news and impressed with a public interest.
The designation of a particular telephone service as either basic or non-basic has effects beyond the first few years of a price regulation plan. A provider's rate changes are limited by an overall maximum annual adjustment, and a provider may adjust its rates for basic local exchange telephone services or non-basic services only so long as its aggregate revenues for such services generated by such changes do not exceed the aggregate revenues generated by the maximum rates permitted by the price regulation plan.  Tenn. Code Ann. ? 65-5-209(e).
In a telephone rate case, the property which is subject to separation is that which is actually used and useful for the convenience of the public. ORS 757.055 (Oregon). When telephone rates are in controversy, it would seem to be necessary to find a basis for a division of the total value of the property independently of revenue, and this must be found in the use that is made of the property.
After the issuance of a certificate, no other telephone company shall render telephone service in the area or areas so determined and defined, except pursuant to a certificate granted by the commission, after notice of hearing and hearing, that public convenience and necessity require that telephone service in any such area be rendered or offered by another company. Any telephone company, without a prior order by the Public Service Commission (commission), may voluntarily file with the commission a report of the territorial area or areas and the boundaries thereof within the state in which it renders, is reasonably prepared to render, and proposes to render telephone service within a reasonable time. Upon the filing of such voluntary report the commission shall have the power to issue its certificate of territorial authority to such company in like manner and with like effect as if such report had been required by order of the commission as hereinabove provided for in this section. Ind. Code Ann. ? 8-1-2-88(b) (1982).
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 3330 (1909), which imposes a duty on telegraph and telephone companies to transmit messages promptly, with impartiality, and in good faith, refers to no other messages than the ones delivered at the offices in the State of Missouri.
The second of two things a provider must prove to win on a claim that defendant's conduct has the "effect" of prohibiting the provision of wireless services for purposes of showing a violation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 is that the manner in which the provider proposes to fill the significant gap in service is the least intrusive on the values that the denial sought to serve. This will require a showing that a good faith effort has been made to identify and evaluate less intrusive alternatives, e.g., that the provider has considered less sensitive sites, alternative system designs, alternative tower designs, placement of antennae on existing structures.
The language of the controlling statutes and of Tenn. Reg. Authority R. 1220-4-2-.15 simply cannot be stretched to provide the Tennessee Regulatory Authority with authority to compel a non-utility publishing company to brand the cover of its White Pages directory, not just with the name, but also the commercial logo of a telephone utility in competition with the incumbent local exchange carrier.
A failure to deliver a dispatch in accordance with the requirements of Ind. Stat. Ann. ? 5514 (1901), is a failure to transmit under the provisions of the Ind. Stat. Ann. ? 5511 (1901), and renders the telegraph company thus guilty liable for the statutory penalty.
Section 206 of the Telecommunications Act (TCA), 47 U.S.C.S. ? 206, expressly creates carrier liability to the person injured by any violation of the TCA and ? 207, 47 U.S.C.S. ? 207, expressly permits any person claiming to be injured by the violation to bring suit in district court. Taken together, these provisions create a private right of action, thereby enabling a plaintiff to sue for a violation of the TCA.
The Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA), 47 U.S.C.S. ? 227, forbids the use of any telephone facsimile machine, computer, or other device to send an unsolicited advertisement to a telephone facsimile machine. ? 227(b)(1)(C). Under the TCPA, an "unsolicited advertisement" is any material advertising the commercial availability or quality of any property, goods, or services which is transmitted to any person without that person's prior express invitation or permission. ? 227(a)(4). Moreover, the TCPA provides that a person or entity may, if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State, bring an action to recover for actual monetary loss from a violation of ? 227(b) or to receive $ 500 in damages for each such violation, whichever is greater. ? 227(b)(3).
Where a telegraph company undertakes to deliver under reasonable rules and regulations a message transmitted over its wires and neglects to do so that it is liable in damages to those injured by such neglect.
The Secretary of State has the responsibility of preserving the public trust tidelands for the people of the State of Mississippi.
R.I.G.L. 1956 (1987 Reenactment) ? 42-35-15 precludes a reviewing court from substituting its judgment for that of the agency concerning questions of fact. A reviewing court must uphold an agency decision if there is any legally competent evidence in the record to support the agency decision. This standard, however, does not preclude judicial review of questions of law and their application to the facts.
Wis. Stat. ? 144.44(7)(g) provides: 1. The Department of Natural Resources shall conduct a continuing review of the potential hazard to public health or the environment of various types of solid wastes and solid waste facilities. The Department shall consider information submitted by any person concerning the potential hazard to public health or the environment of any type of solid waste. 2. If the Department, after a review under ? 144.44(7)g)(1), finds that regulation under Wis. Stat. ?? 144.43 to 144.47 is not warranted in light of the potential hazard to public health or the environment, the department shall either: a. promulgate a rule specifying types of solid waste that need not be disposed of at a licensed solid waste disposal facility;b. on a case-by-case basis, exempt from regulation under Wis. Stat. ?? 144.43 to 144.47 specified types of solid waste facilities; or c. authorize an individual generator to dispose of a specified type of solid waste at a site other than a licensed solid waste disposal facility.3. The Department may require periodic testing of solid wastes and impose other conditions on exemptions granted under Wis. Stat. ? 144.47(7)(g)(2).
Under Anne Arundel County, Maryland, Code, Art. 28, ? 6-204(b) In an Open Space District, a recreational pier is permitted as a conditional use subject to the conditions of Anne Arundel County, Maryland, Code, Art. 28 ? 2-204(b)(3B).
To establish a claim for misappropriation of trade secrets, a plaintiff must show (1) the existence of a trade secret, (2) communication of the trade secret to the defendant under an express or implied agreement limiting disclosure of the secret, and (3) defendant's use of the secret that injures plaintiff.
In the context of discovery of a trade secret, when both parties satisfy their burdens, the court must then balance the harm from disclosure against the need for the information. This weighing determination involves substantial judicial discretion and careful attention to the facts of the particular case.
There are two basic methods for assessing damages for the misappropriation of trade secretes: the damage sustained by the victim, such as by lost profits, which is the traditional common-law method, and the profits earned by the wrongdoer by the use of the misappropriated material.
The first step in any trade secret analysis is a determination of whether any trade secrets exist. Moreover, Federal Courts apply the appropriate Trade Secret law of the appropriate state.
Property rights in trade secrets that otherwise come within the scope of the Fifth Amendment are extinguished if the secret information is released to the public.
The threshold inquiry is whether any legally protectable information exists. A trade secret is information that has independent economic value because it is not generally known or readily ascertainable and efforts are taken to maintain the secrecy of the information. Where an item is unpatented and available on the open market, it would seem to be readily available to the public, including defendants, and capable of duplication and, thus, not a protectable trade secret.
Under Minn. Stat. ? 325C.01, subd. 5 (2012), a trade secret can derive independent economic value from the fact that it is not readily ascertainable by proper means. As a result, a compilation of publicly available information can be a trade secret, if such compilation requires the expenditure of considerable time and money to assemble. Customer lists containing only public information may be entitled to trade secret protection where the party compiling the customer lists, while using public information as a source, expends a great deal of time, effort and expense in developing the lists. When the information contains matters readily known or accessible to the public, trade secret status and protection depends on other considerations including the effort made in compiling the information and keeping it confidential.
Federal courts have consistently applied a three-part balancing test when a party seeks an order protecting trade secrets from discovery. First, the party opposing discovery must show that the information sought is a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information and that disclosure would be harmful. Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c)(7). Then the burden shifts to the party seeking discovery to show that the information is relevant and necessary to bring the matter to trial. If both parties satisfy their burden, the court must weigh the potential harm of disclosure against the need for the information in reaching a decision.
Under the Delaware Uniform Trade Secrets Act, a chancery court is authorized to grant a request for an injunction to remedy the misappropriation of trade secrets. Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ? 2002(a).
Misappropriation under the Uniform Trade Secrets Act is defined to include either disclosure or use, Colo. Rev. Stat. ? 7-74-102(2)(b) (2008). There is no hint in the statute that the accrual of the limitations period is different depending on the nature of the misappropriation.
The Uniform Trade Secrets Act (UTSA), Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ?? 2001-09, codifies the basic principles of common law trade secret protection and has been adopted by over 40 states, including the State of Delaware and the State of Connecticut. Conn. Gen. Stat. ?? 35-50 through 35-58. Due to the dearth of Delaware cases interpreting the UTSA, a Delaware court looks to other states' decisions interpreting the UTSA for guidance. Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ? 2008. The UTSA shall be applied and construed to effectuate its general purpose to make uniform the law with respect to the subject of this chapter among states enacting it. Conn. Gen. Stat. ? 35-58.
A "trade secret" is information not generally known or readily ascertainable that derives independent economic value from secrecy and is the subject of reasonable efforts to maintain its secrecy. Minn. Stat. ? 325C.01, subd. 5 (2010).
The burden of proof is on the party asserting a trade secret to show that it is included in the categories of protectable trade secret information listed in the trade secrets statute.
To show independent economic value, a plaintiff need only show that a competitor cannot produce a comparable product without a similar expenditure of time and money.
Under the Uniform Trade Secrets Act, adopted by both Delaware, Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ? 2007(a), and Connecticut, Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. ? 35-57(a), misappropriation of a trade secret is defined as disclosure or use of a trade secret of another without express or implied consent by a person who at the time of disclosure or use, knew or had reason to know that his or her knowledge of the trade secret was acquired under circumstances giving rise to a duty to maintain its secrecy or limit its use. Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. ? 35-51(b); Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ? 2001(2).
Establishing necessity is the heart of the three-part analysis in the context of discovery of a trade secret. When necessity is established, courts frequently hold that the trade secret must be disclosed, albeit with some protection. "Necessity" means that without discovery of the particular trade secret, the discovering party would be unable to present its case to the point that an unjust result is a real, rather than a merely possible, threat. Implicit in this is the notion that suitable substitutes must be completely lacking.
New Jersey courts have generally defined a "trade secret" as any formula, pattern, device or compilation of information which is used in one's business, and which gives him an opportunity to obtain an advantage over competitors who do not know or use it. In other words, a trade secret cannot be any piece of information; it must have the potential to give the holder some advantage. New Jersey courts have also considered the following six factors: (1) the extent to which the information is known outside of the business; (2) the extent to which it is known by employees and others involved in the business; (3) the extent of measures taken by the owner to guard the secrecy of the information; (4) the value of the information to the business and to its competitors; (5) the amount of effort or money expended in developing the information; and (6) the ease or difficulty with which the information could be properly acquired or duplicated by others.
An employee or former employee who uses or discloses a trade secret owned by the employer or former employer in breach of a duty of confidence is subject to liability for appropriation of the trade secret under the rule stated in Restatement (Third) of Unfair Competition ? 40.
The Indiana Uniform Trade Secrets Act displaces all conflicting law of Indiana pertaining to the misappropriation of trade secrets, except contract law and criminal law. Ind. Code ? 24-2-3-1(c).
Not all confidential information is a trade secret. The Delaware Trade Secrets Act provides three prerequisites for trade secret protection. Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ? 2001(4). First, the Act protects only information, including but not limited to formulae, compilations, patterns, programs, devices, methods, techniques, and processes. Second, this information must derive independent economic value from not generally being known or readily accessible by proper means by other people. Third, reasonable steps must be taken to protect the information.
It is inconsistent with the language of Minn. Stat. ch. 256 that Chapter 256 would require notice be sent to both the person involved and his attorney for purposes of the 10-day response time under Minn. Stat. ? 256.0451, subd. 23 (Supp. 2003), but not for purposes of the 30-day time to appeal to the district court.
Judicial review of an agency's legislative rule and the construction of a statute that it administers involves two separate but interrelated questions, only the second of which furnishes an occasion for deference. In deciding whether an administrative agency's position should be sustained, a reviewing court applies the standards set out by the United States Supreme Court in Chevron, U.S.A. Inc. The court first must ask whether the legislature has directly spoken to the precise question at issue. If the intention of the legislature is clear, that is the end of the matter, and the agency's position only can be upheld if it conforms to the legislature's intent. No deference is due the agency's interpretation at this stage.
While a court cannot control the exercise of executive functions or substitute its discretion for that of an executive, it is the responsibility of a court to review the exercise of such discretion where improper motives or abuse is claimed.
Md. Ann. Code art. 41, ? 250 (1982 Repl. Vol.) provides: On petition of any interested person, the agency may issue a declaratory ruling with respect to the applicability of any rule, order, or statute enforceable by it to any person, property, or statement of facts. If issued a declaratory ruling is binding between the agency and the petitioner on the state of facts alleged. Such a ruling is subject to review in the circuit court of the county in the manner hereinafter provided for the review of decisions in contested cases. Each agency shall prescribe by rule the form for such petitions and the procedure for their submission, consideration, and disposition.
Ind. Code ? 25-31-1-21 (1993) provides the rule of law for "reciprocal" or "comity" registration of out-of-state professional engineers. It states in part that the State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers (Board) may, upon application and payment of a fee established by the Board in the Board's rules, issue a certificate of registration as a professional engineer to an individual who holds a valid certificate of registration as a professional engineer, issued to the applicant by the proper authority of any state or territory or possession of the United States if the requirements for registration of professional engineers that the certificate of registration was issued under do not conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
The construction of a statute by an administrative agency charged with its execution is entitled to weight and the court will defer to a reasonable interpretation of that agency unless it contradicts clear and unambiguous statutory language.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 536.016 (2000) states that any state agency shall propose rules based upon substantial evidence on the record and a finding by the agency that the rule is necessary to carry out the purposes of the statute that granted such rulemaking authority. Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 536.016 (2000). "Rule" is defined as each agency statement of general applicability that implements, interprets, or prescribes law or policy, or that describes the organization, procedure, or practice requirements of any agency. Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 536.010(6) (2000).
Where the Delaware Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board has made a discretionary decision, the scope of a court's inquiry includes examining the Board's action for abuse of discretion.
If an adequate administrative remedy exists, it must be exhausted before the court will obtain jurisdiction to act in the matter. Where a statute has established a procedure to redress a particular wrong a person must follow the specified remedy and may not institute a proceeding that might have been permissible in the absence of such a statutory procedure.
Judicial review of administrative decisions is circumscribed and limited to an examination of the certified record to determine if there is any legally competent evidence therein to support the agency's decision. The court must affirm the agency's decision if any legally competent evidence exists in the record. Legally competent evidence is indicated by the presence of "some" or "any" evidence supporting the agency's findings. The court may not substitute its judgment for the agency's view with respect to credibility of the witnesses or the weight of the evidence concerning questions of fact. Questions of law are not binding upon the court and may be reviewed to determine what the law is and its applicability to the facts.
The supreme court reviews a district court's decision on judicial review of an agency decision to determine whether the findings are clearly erroneous and whether the conclusions of law are correct.
When an appellate court reviews a decision by a circuit court concerning an agency action, it applies the same standard of review that the trial courts are bound to follow. The appellate court must determine whether the order of the administrative agency: (1) was unsupported by substantial evidence; (2) was arbitrary or capricious; (3) was beyond the power of the administrative agency to make; or (4) violated some statutory or constitutional right of the complaining party. The Mississippi Supreme Court has defined substantial evidence as such relevant evidence as reasonable minds might accept as adequate to support a conclusion or more than a "mere scintilla" of evidence. Further, an act is arbitrary when it is not done according to reason or judgment, but depending on the will alone. An act is capricious if done without reason, in a whimsical manner, implying either a lack of understanding of or a disregard for the surrounding facts and settled controlling principles.
Agency amendment of its determination is appropriate when it has relied on a legally improper method of reaching that determination or when errors of inadvertence or mistake are discovered. In the absence of such an occurrence, a court has to rule on the merits to determine the appropriateness of remand.
Any one of the six bases listed in La. Rev. Stat. Ann. ? 49:964(G) is sufficient to modify or reverse an agency determination.
A statement as to what various witnesses testified to is not a finding of ultimate facts. A review court should be able, from an examination of the findings alone, to ascertain whether an order is sustained by the findings.
A court does not substitute its judgment for that of a body such as a governing body of a city on a matter within the discretion of the governing body, as long as it does not appear that the action of the governing body is arbitrary or capricious.
If a decision of an agency is not affirmed by the court, it shall be modified or reversed, and the case shall be remanded to the agency for disposition in accordance with the decision of the court.
Although a regulation has the force of law, it may not alter or add to a statute. A regulation must fall when it alters or adds to a statute.
In the context of an administrative hearing, an agency's decision to accept additional evidence without providing the opportunity for rebuttal of that evidence violates due process.
Under Pennsylvania's Right-to-Know Law, 65 Pa. Stat. Ann. ? 67.101 et seq., where a request seeks information going beyond strictly governmental information and into the realm of an individual's personal information, a balancing test must be employed, weighing the personal security and privacy interests of the individual against the benefits of public disclosure.
The Officer Special Review Board (OSRB) adjudicates appeals alleging bias, prejudice, inaccurate or unjust ratings, or any matter other than administrative error. Army Reg. 623-105, para. 6-6(i).
Under ? 7(a)(2) of the Veterans Claims Assistance Act of 2000 (VCAA), Pub. L. No. 106-475, 114 Stat. 2096 (2000), the amendment to 38 U.S.C.S. ? 5107 is applicable to any claim filed before the date of the enactment of the VCAA and not final as of that date. 114 Stat. at 2099.
Notice may be generic in the sense that it need not identify evidence specific to the individual claimant's case (though it necessarily must be tailored to the specific nature of the veteran's claim).
Credible evidence of continuity of symptomatology may be sufficient to indicate that persistent or recurrent symptoms of a disability maybe associated with a veteran's service.
Unless the Congress provides otherwise or permits the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to do otherwise and he did, where a law or regulation changes after a claim is filed but before the appeals process has concluded, the law or regulation most favorable to appellant shall apply.
With regard to a veterans affairs case and an determination of reasonable attorney fees under the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA), the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims has the discretion to order a reduction in fees when the court finds it appropriate.
To succeed in a claim for service connection, a claimant must prove that he or she is a "veteran" for VA purposes, defined in relevant part as a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service. 38 U.S.C.S. ? 101(2); 38 C.F.R. ? 3.1(d) (2011)2011-01-01. "Active duty" means, among other things, full-time duty in the Armed Forces, other than active duty for training. 38 U.S.C.S. ? 101(21)(A). When a claim for service connection is based on a period of active duty for training, there must be evidence that the individual concerned became disabled as a result of a disease or injury incurred or aggravated in the line of duty during the period of active duty for training. In the absence of such evidence, the period of active duty for training would not qualify as active military, naval, or air service, and the claimant would not achieve veteran status.
Minn. Stat. ? 197.46 provides: No publicly employed veteran separated from the military service under honorable conditions, shall be removed from such position or employment except for incompetency or misconduct shown after a hearing, upon due notice, upon stated charges, in writing. Minn. Stat. ? 197.46 (1986). Under this provision an honorably discharged veteran in public employment retains his position until he has been discharged in accordance with the statute. Any suspension must be with pay, unless it is a disciplinary suspension unrelated to the discharge proceeding. The Veteran's Preference Act is just what its title indicates: a law giving preference to veterans. It says a veteran cannot be removed, discharged, from his or her public employment except for incompetency or misconduct "after a hearing." The hearing must come first, then the discharge. Until discharge, the veteran is entitled to be paid. When a suspension without pay accompanies a pending discharge proceeding, the practical effect is to accelerate the discharge. To suspend without pay before the hearing would accomplish the same thing as a discharge without a hearing, "removal" of the employee from the job with no pay.
10 U.S.C.S. ? 638 (a)(2) states that the Secretary of the Army shall specify the number of officers a Selective Early Retirement Board may recommend for early retirement, and that number shall not be more than 30 percent of the number of officers considered in each grade in each competitive category. "Grade" means officer rank, and "competitive category" means non-line versus line officers.
A Global Assessment of Functioning score is only one factor that the Board of Veterans' Appeals must consider and weigh with the other evidence of record to determine the appropriate level of disability.
A determination of whether a veteran is entitled to an extraschedular rating under 38 C.F.R. ? 3.321(b) is a three-step inquiry. If the regional office (RO) or Board of Veterans' Appeals determines first that the schedular evaluation does not contemplate the claimant's level of disability and symptomatology, and next that the disability picture exhibits other related factors such as marked interference with employment or frequent periods of hospitalization, then the case must be referred to an authorized official to determine whether, to accord justice, an extraschedular rating is warranted. Neither the RO nor the Board is permitted to assign an extraschedular rating in the first instance; rather, the matter must initially be referred to those officials who possess the delegated authority to assign such a rating.
A request for revision based on clear and unmistakable error (CUE) is an exception to the rule of finality and is grounds to reverse or revise a decision by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, where the evidence establishes CUE in a final regional office or Board of Veterans' Appeals' decision. 38 U.S.C.S. ?? 5109A, 7111; 38 C.F.R. ?? 3.105(a), 20.1400-.1411 (2012)2012-01-01.
To the extent that United States Army regulations conflict with those of the Department of Defense, the service regulations must give way.
Single-judge disposition by the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims is appropriate when the issue is of relative simplicity and the outcome is not reasonably debatable.
Where, in a veterans' benefits case, a statute or regulation changes during the appellate process, the version more favorable to the claimant will apply unless Congress provided to the contrary or authorized the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to do so and the Secretary did so. In this regard, the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims does not determine in the first instance which version of the law is more favorable to the claimant.
To be timely, a notice of appeal (NOA) must be filed with the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims within 120 days after the date the Board of Veterans' Appeals decision was mailed to the appellant. 38 U.S.C.S. ? 7266(a). When an appellant files a motion for Board reconsideration within 120 days after the mailing date of the Board decision, however, the appellant then has a new 120-day period after the Board Chairman's denial of reconsideration in which to file an NOA with the court or a new motion for reconsideration with the Board.
A medical opinion must support its conclusions with an analysis that the Board of Veterans' Appeals can consider and weigh against contrary opinions.
Veterans Affairs must provide a medical opinion or examination if the evidence of record does not contain medical evidence sufficiently competent to decide the claim, but there is (1) competent evidence of a current disability or persistent or recurrent symptoms of a disability; and (2) evidence establishing that an event, injury, or disease occurred in service or establishing certain diseases manifesting during an applicable presumptive period for which the claimant qualifies; and (3) an indication that the disability or persistent or recurrent symptoms of a disability may be associated with the veteran's service or with another service-connected disability.
The factors for determination of whether a veteran is a department head or chief deputy for purposes of exemption from the Veterans Preference Act are: (1) Does the alleged department head have charge of the work done by his department? (2) Does his work require technical, professional training? (3) Is he the highest authority at that level of government as to his official duties? (4) Does he supervise all of the work in his department? (5) Does the success of his department depend upon his technique? (6) Are the employees in the department under his direction? (7) Are his duties more than merely different from other employees? (8) Does he have the power to hire and fire subordinates?
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs' duty to assist includes providing a medical examination or obtaining a medical opinion when such an examination or opinion is necessary to make a decision on a claim. 38 U.S.C.S. ? 5103A(d)(1). The Secretary is not required to provide a medical examination in all cases; however, once the Secretary undertakes the effort to provide an examination, he must provide an adequate one. A medical opinion is considered adequate where it is based upon consideration of the veteran's prior medical history and examinations and also describes the disability, if any, in sufficient detail so that the Board of Veterans' Appeals' evaluation of the claimed disability will be a fully informed one.
Interest coupons are a class of securities in some respects differing from all others. They are intended as evidence that the holder is entitled to receive the amount at the time and place specified, and whatever their form, their legal effect is the same. Though they be in the form of an order or draft, they are coupons, and subject to the same rules applicable to this class of securities. It would be alike inconvenient and contrary to all usage and custom, to require each coupon to be formally protested before suit can be maintained against the maker.
Administrative sanctions under the Utah Uniform Securities Act (Act), Utah Code Ann. ?? 61-1-1 to -25 (2006 &amp; Supp. 2009), do not require a finding of scienter or other mental state. Utah Code Ann. ? 61-1-20 allows for the imposition of administrative sanctions whenever it appears to the director of the Division that a person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in an act or practice constituting a violation of this chapter or a rule or order under this chapter, without regard to the violator's mental state. By contrast, Utah Code Ann. ? 61-1-21 allows for criminal penalties for securities violations only for actions that are willful or knowing. The Act's administrative sanctions--fines, in particular--do incidentally promote retribution and deterrence, both of which are traditional aims of punishment. However, such sanctions are plainly part of the Division's arsenal for regulation of persons dealing in the sale of securities to the public, and speak as much, if not more, to that regulatory challenge than to a sole need to punish. As such, while the civil penalty may by its nature have effects of deterrence and punishment, those effects are incidental to and do not override the Act's and the civil penalty's primarily remedial purpose.
Any person having a right of action against a broker or salesman for making a sale in violation of the applicable Kansas statute shall have a right of action under the bond of the broker or salesman. Actions may be brought upon a bond at any time, in any court of competent jurisdiction, by or for the benefit of any person, firm or corporation, that shall sustain loss or damage by reason of the breach of the conditions contained in the bond.
Individuals claiming an exemption under Minn. Stat. ? 80A.46(14) (2012) have to show that not more than 35 purchasers are present in this state during any 12 consecutive months, other than those otherwise exempted. Minn. Stat. ? 80A.46 (14)(A).
According to ? 20A(b)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the liability of a controlling person under this section shall be subject to 15 U.S.C.S. ? 78t(a). Therefore, anyone who controls another person who engages in insider trading is subject to the liability for controlling persons as stated in ? 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, i.e., 15 U.S.C.S. ? 78t(a).
Section 25-1319, OCLA (1930) provided for a bond of the broker conditioned upon the faithful performance of the obligations of the said dealer or broker under said interim certificates and memoranda of sale and executed in form satisfactory to the commissioner by a surety company authorized to do business in this state, but such bond was to be given at the option of the broker and executed only when securities were sold but not delivered. The faithful performance clause mentioned in the above section of the statute has no application to the statutory bond referred to in ? 25-1309, OCLA (1930). The bonds executed pursuant to ?? 25-1309 and 25-1319, OCLA (1930) are separate and distinct. The first bond, under ? 25-1309, OCLA (1930), covering the obligations of the broker, is executed as a condition precedent to the issuance of a license to operate; the subsequent bond, executed pursuant to ? 25-1319, OCLA (1930) covers the obligations of the broker under an interim certificate and memorandum of sale where stock has been sold but not delivered. Section 25-1319 does not authorize the corporation commissioner to include the faithful performance clause in the bond mentioned in ? 25-1309, OCLA (1930).
The question of fraud depends on the status of a corporation prior to and at the time of a plaintiff's purchase of stock, and as to that, the question of the absence of dividends thereafter is not pertinent. The true measure of damages is the difference between what the plaintiff was induced to pay for the stock and its actual value at the time of the purchase. If it had no value, the damages will be what he paid.
Solicit means to entreat, importune, to plead for, to tempt, beseech, crave, implore. To entreat, importune, to approach with a request or plea, to seek actively. To appeal for something; to apply to for obtaining something; to ask earnestly; to entreat, to implore, to importune; to plead for; to try to obtain.
Wis. Stat. ? 100.18 provides that no person or corporation, with intent to sell, distribute or increase the consumption of anything offered by it to the public, shall place before the public a statement which contains any assertion or statement of fact which is untrue, deceptive or misleading. Section 100.18(1) provides protection from untruthful, deceptive or misleading advertising. Since the statute lists three separate alternatives, the factfinder only has to determine that a statement is untrue to find a violation of the statute.
Securities issuers relying upon the exemption from registration created by Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ? 7309(b)(9) must make certain filings with the Delaware Securities Division.
A dealer in a statutory sense of the word is not one who buys to keep or makes to sell, but one who buys to sell again; he stands intermediately between the broker having stock for sale and the purchaser, and depends for his profits upon the skill and foresight with which he watches the markets.
Nat'l Ass'n Sec. Dealers Manual R. 10301(a) sets two conditions for arbitration. First, the dispute must occur between a customer and an  member or an associated person of a National Association of Securities Dealers member. In this respect, the dispute must have arisen in connection with the business of the member or in connection with the activities of the associated person. Second, a claim may not be submitted to arbitration when it involves a member whose membership is no longer valid. Rule 10301(a)(1). Such claims may be submitted to arbitration only if the customer agrees in writing.
Or. Rev. Stat. ? 59.275 provides that the burden of proof of an exemption shall be upon the party claiming the benefit of such exemption.
Wis. Stat. ? 189.14 makes no distinction between forms of application for license by companies commencing to do a security business in this state, and those who seek what plaintiff designates as a "renewal." In fact there is no such thing under the statute as a "renewal" of a license.
In a lost-chance claim, damages should be awarded on a proportional basis as determined by the percentage value of the patient's chance for a better outcome prior to the negligent act.
Want of probable cause and malice must both exist to justify an action for malicious prosecution. Where want of probable cause is shown malice may be inferred therefrom; but even if malice is shown, want of probable cause may not be inferred therefrom, but must be established as an independent proposition.
In res ipsa loquitur, the evidence must link the defendant with the offending instrumentality. It is never enough for the plaintiff to prove merely that the plaintiff has been injured by the negligence of someone unidentified. Even though there is beyond all possible doubt negligence in the air, it is still necessary to bring it home to the defendant. The purpose of this requirement is to link the defendant with the probability, already established, that the accident was negligently caused. On this too, the plaintiff has the burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence; and in any case where it is clear that it is at least equally probable that the negligence was that of another, the court must direct the jury that the plaintiff has not established a case.
A pedestrian is not directed by law to be illuminated, whereas the owner of a vehicle is obliged by statute to provide his vehicle with an adequate amount of incandescence as it travels through darkness.
If a governmental entity loses its immunity under the Tennessee Governmental Tort Liability Act (GTLA), Tenn. Code Ann. ? 29-20-201 (2000), a court must turn its attention to the applicability of the public duty doctrine. As in any other negligence action, a plaintiff must establish the existence of a duty or standard of care in an action for negligence of a government employee. The public duty doctrine was not abolished by the enactment of the GTLA. The public duty doctrine constitutes an extra layer of protection that a governmental entity may assert as an affirmative defense when it is not otherwise protected by the immunity afforded under the GTLA. The public duty doctrine originated at common-law and shields a public employee from suits for injuries that are caused by the public employee's breach of a duty owed to the public at large.
The general rule of law is that a physician or surgeon, or one who holds himself out as such, whether duly licensed or not, when he accepts an employment to treat a patient professionally, must exercise such reasonable care and skill in that behalf as is usually possessed and exercised by physicians or surgeons in good standing, of the same system or school of practice, in the vicinity or locality of his practice, having due regard to the advanced state of medical or surgical science at the time. This rule is elementary. It has its foundation in most persuasive considerations of public policy. Its purpose is to protect the health and lives of the public, particularly of the weak or credulous, the ignorant or unwary, from the unskillfulness or negligence of medical practitioners, by holding such practitioners liable to respond in damages for the results of their unskillfulness or negligence.
Where the confusion as to property is tortious, the party by whose fault the mixture was caused must bear the whole loss unless he can identify his property from that with which it was commingled.
If the servant, before he enters the service, knows, or if he afterwards discovers, or if, by the exercise of ordinary observation or reasonable skill and diligence in his department of service, he may discover, that the building, premises, machine, appliance, or fellow-servant, in connection with which or with whom he is to labor, is unsafe or unfit in any particular, and if, notwithstanding such knowledge, or means of knowledge, he voluntarily enters into or continues in the employment without objection or complaint, he is deemed to assume the risk of the danger thus known or discoverable, and to waive any claim for damages against the master in case it shall result in injury to him.
To justify a court in saying that conduct is per se contributory negligence, the case must present some such feature of recklessness as would leave no opportunity for difference of opinion as to its imprudence in the minds of ordinarily prudent men.
Delaware law has long recognized a distinction between actions at common law for fraud or deceit and actions in equity for relief from fraud. With respect to the former, a necessary element of a common law fraud claim is a showing that the defendant made a false representation with the knowledge or belief that the representation was false, or at least with reckless indifference to the truth of the representation. By contrast, in an action at equity for relief from fraud, there is no requirement that the defendant have known or believed his or her statement to be false or to have made the statement in reckless disregard of the truth. Rather, equity provides a remedy for negligent and/or innocent misrepresentations.
The determination of whether a condition presented an unreasonable risk of harm is a fact-intensive analysis that comprises several factors including: (1) the claims and interests of the parties; (2) the probability of the risk occurring; (3) the gravity of the consequences; (4) the burden of adequate precautions; (5) individual and societal rights and obligations; and (6) the social utility involved.
Ordinarily, unless the facts are so clear as to permit a conclusion as a matter of law, it is for the trier of fact to determine whether a defendant's negligent conduct amounts to gross negligence.
Persons owning or in possession of property can make changes on the property and remove any danger or hazard existing thereon while those persons who have completed construction and/or design on the property have no right to enter upon same or to make any change in it.These distinctions are real and not arbitrary or capricious and support a valid legislative exercise which the courts should recognize.
Where the evidence shows that the injury complained of was due to the fact that, at the time of the accident, the servant was occupying a position that was obviously more dangerous than another that was available, the prima facie presumption of contributory negligence arises, which will warrant a court in declaring, as a matter of law, that the action cannot be maintained.
In the case of an "unavoidably unsafe" yet properly prepared prescription drug, the adequacy of the accompanying warning determines whether the drug, as marketed, is defective, or unreasonably dangerous.
Superseding cause is a means of relieving an actor from liability where it would be wholly unreasonable for policy reasons to make the defendant answer in damages for his negligence, even though negligence was considered a substantial factor by the jury.
As between two tortfeasors, contribution is not a recovery for the tort but the enforcement of an equitable duty to share liability for the wrong done.
Where there is no contention that there was any defect in a motorist's eyesight, it is idle to say he looked but did not see an approaching car, because if he had attentively looked he must have seen it.
The factor of the intentional act as a significant factor in causing a breach contains three subparts, each of which must be considered. First, it must be determined whether the act was intentional. The next determination is whether the defendant's intentional act was a "significant factor." The third determination is whether the intentional act caused an actual breach, or break, in the relationship.
Although, in many instances, suffering an untoward result after surgery may put a reasonable person on notice of tortious conduct, certain untoward effects can "mask" tortious conduct. A reasonable person that experiences symptoms that are incidental to a particular medical procedure may not be aware that he or she has been a victim of tortious conduct. Normally, knowledge of injury as a result of defendants' actions would put the injured party on sufficient notice of defendants' tortious conduct to commence the running of the statute. However, immediate, adverse side effects commonly result from medical treatment given to gain long-range and more important benefits. Knowledge of momentary, adverse effects which are immediately controlled would not put plaintiff on notice as a matter of law of tortious conduct by defendants.
Kan. Rev. Stat. ? 17-1226 (Supp. 1933) directs that it is not necessary for an information to allege that a sale of securities was not exempt, but places the burden of proving such exemptions upon the defendant.
The "public interest" requirement of the Uniform Securities Act's penalty provision seems to imply a conclusion that revocation or suspension of registration is felt necessary to protect present and future customers of the registrant, i.e., the investing public, for example, by revocation, if the registrant is shown to be unfit to continue to engage in the securities business, or suspension from business for a period, to impress upon him the necessity for drastically mending his ways lest he reach the level of unfitness. It is worthy of mention that the Commissioners' Note to the Uniform Securities Act, in commenting upon this requirement, says that the requirement that such a finding be made in all cases emphasizes that not every minor or technical infraction is meant to result in a denial, suspension or revocation order.
A "security" is defined in ? 1-102(t) of the Pennsylvania Securities Act, 70 Pa. Stat. Ann. ? 1-101 et seq., to include any note or evidence of indebtedness.
Wis. Stat. ? 180.995(3) (1983) imposes restrictions on the transfer of shares, subject to the articles of incorporation or an agreement of the shareholders, Wis. Stat. ? 180.995(12).
Coupon bonds as well as the coupons thereof, are negotiable securities, and, as such, are subject to the same rules of law as govern that class of securities.
Wis. Stat. ? 183.34 affords a cause of action in favor of the purchaser against any company, broker, or other person participating in the sale where the sale was in violation of law.
It is the duty of an agent to inform his principal of every material fact within his knowledge, no matter when acquired, bearing upon the subject-matter of his agency, which may affect the interests of his principal with respect thereto; and it will be presumed prima facie that he has discharged this duty.
Delaware does not impose a legal requirement on limited liability companies (LLCs) to draft their bylaws to be consistent with some abstract notion of good corporate governance. On the contrary, limited liability companies are creatures of contract, designed to afford the maximum amount of freedom of contract, private ordering, and flexibility to the parties involved.
Knowledge of the agent, not acquired in the course of the agency and not in the mind of the agent at the time of a transaction made by him in behalf of his principal, does not bind the principal. It is also the rule, at least the prevailing and more logical one, that knowledge and notice of the agent acquired prior to his agency but which is clearly in the mind of the agent at the time of the agency transaction does bind the principal.
When a corporation is created under the General Corporation Law, Chapter 65, Revised Code of 1935, every pertinent provision of the constitution and of that law is impliedly written into and composes a part of its charter.
The depth of inspection of corporate records for the purpose of making an evaluation of stock in a closely held corporation depends upon whether or not the plaintiff has relied on a specific circumstance or whether there is merely a desire to sell at some future time. The standard established where a privately-held corporation has been involved is that which is sufficient and essential in order to place a value on its stock. Furthermore, the court, not the corporation or petitioner, determines what is essential and sufficient.
Neither partners nor directors of a company are at liberty to make individual profits out of the business of the concern without the knowledge and assent of associates. The rule under consideration is peculiarly applicable to transactions which precede the formation of a company or partnership. Judging from recent events and disclosures, nothing seems more common than for a person in getting up a company to obtain for the company property of which it is in want, and try and make the company pay him more than he gave for it. Such a transaction can never stand. There may undoubtedly be a valid sale to a company by persons engaged in getting it up; but once let it be shown that the alleged vendor obtained the property when it was his duty to obtain it for the company, and it immediately follows that he cannot, without the fullest disclosure on his part, charge the company with more than he actually gave.
Ala. Code ?? 3642-3658 (1907) provide that foreign corporations must file instrument of writing designating agent and place of business in Alabama; that before engaging in any business the statement shall be filed designating a known place of business, etc.; that at the time of paying the "franchise tax," provided by Ala. Code ? 3647, into the treasury it shall file in the office of the state auditor an instrument of writing under the seal of the corporation and signed officially by the president or other chief officer and the secretary of such corporation, showing the name of the corporation, and the state or county under whose laws it was incorporated, the amount of the total authorized capital of such corporation, the total amount of the actual paid-in capital of such corporation, its principal place of business, the name of the authorized agent of such corporation in Alabama, and the post office address of such authorized agent of such corporation in Alabama and the location of the principal place of business of such corporation in Alabama. Ala. Code ? 3648.
In all matters involving the exercise of what might be termed a legislative or judicial discretion, and which the directors, therefore, cannot delegate to others, as is elsewhere shown, they can bind the corporation only by acting together as a board. A majority of directors cannot undertake to act in their individual names for the board itself, and no act can be done affecting the ownership of property except by a resolution of the board when it is regularly constituted and sitting in consultation.
Neither 1904 Md. Laws 337 nor 1908 Md. Laws 305 give to the creditor suing the stockholder at law any lien or priority, by reason of having brought suit, upon the debt due by the defendant stockholder or to the corporation. Nor does the entry of suit by one creditor exclude the other creditors from suing the same stockholder and recovering the entire debt due by him, if they can secure earlier judgments. It is the recovery of judgment, not the entry of suit, that gives to the suing creditor the exclusive right to the debt due by the defendant stockholder. The mere bringing of suit by one creditor against a stockholder does not constitute a defense to a suit by another creditor.
The creation of an agency may be deduced from the declarations and acts of the parties and does not depend upon express appointment and acceptance.
Corporate directors should have a general knowledge of the manner in which the corporate business is conducted; and, where the duty of knowing exists, ignorance because of neglect of duty on the part of a director creates the same liability as actual knowledge and failure to act on that knowledge.
The provision of RSA 357-C:3, III(p)(3) (Supp. 2012) that dealer/manufacturer agreements may authorize the submission of a dispute to arbitration or other binding dispute resolution procedures at the time the dispute arises has no effect upon the protections of RSA 357-C:7, I(d) in the context of a discontinuance of the manufacturer/dealer relationship. Indeed, RSA 357-C:3, III(p)(3) demonstrates that when the legislature intended to create an exception for voluntary agreements, allowing them to be effective in specific circumstances, it knew how to do so. The legislature did not include any specific exception to the requirements of RSA 357-C:7, I.
Wholly-owned subsidiary corporations are expected to operate for the benefit of their parent corporations; that is why they are created. Parent corporations do not owe such subsidiaries fiduciary duties. That is established Delaware law. That is not to say that Delaware law leaves the creditors of subsidiaries without rights. That would be inaccurate. Delaware has a potent fraudulent conveyance statute enabling creditors to challenge actions by parent corporations siphoning assets from subsidiaries. And Delaware public policy is strongly supportive of freedom of contract, thereby supporting the primary means by which creditors protect themselves - through the negotiations of toothy contractual provisions securing their right to seize on the assets of the borrowing subsidiary. What Delaware law does not do is to impose retroactive fiduciary obligations on directors simply because their chosen business strategy did not pan out.
Where a stockholder is acting in his own behalf and contrary to the wishes of a majority of the stockholders in attempting to overturn the ultra vires act of the corporation, reasonable promptness should be required of him in view of the fact that the rights of the stockholders and of the corporation and third parties became adapted to the new status, and very serious consequences would result after a considerable lapse of time. Besides this, although the corporation, when sued to enforce rights under an ultra vires act, may interpose the defense without more, and thus defeat the action, yet when the corporation itself appears as a complainant in equity, and seeks to undo such act, it must, as far as possible, make the other party whole.
Del. Code Ann. tit. 8 ? 102(b)(7) permits a corporation, by so providing in its certificate of incorporation, to protect its directors from monetary liability for duty of care violations.
A partner may by his will provide that the partnership shall continue notwithstanding his death; and if it is assented to by the surviving partner, it becomes obligatory. But, then, in each case, the agreement or authority must be clearly made out.
No rule can be laid down which will determine the question of partnership in every case. Each case must, in great measure, be governed by the facts and circumstances surrounding it.
The law does not permit the directors of a corporation to appropriate property to themselves nor give it to others; and if they waste it, or apply it in payment of claims which they have no authority to pay, or by negligent inattention to their duties suffer others to appropriate it without right, they are liable to the corporation for any losses resulting from such misuse of authority or neglect of duty.
The rule is, when no formalities are prescribed, any agreement by which a person shows an intention to become a shareholder upon the terms set forth in a company's charter, is sufficient to constitute a contract of subscription. If a subscription, then it is settled that the fact that a certificate has not been delivered or tendered is no defense to a suit on the subscription.
Generally, a partnership is liable for the wrongful conduct of one of its partners only when that partner is acting within the ordinary course of the partnership's business or within the authority of his copartners. Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 358.130 (1986).
A court reviewing an agency action in a best value procurement must be highly deferential, and the agency that made the determination in question is presumed to have acted in a reasonable and rational manner. A plaintiff must rebut the presumption of a rational basis in order to upset the agency's findings. In other words, mere disagreement with an agency's handling of a procurement matter falls short of meeting the burden of proving that the process was arbitrary and capricious. Moreover, a plaintiff's burden is elevated where the solicitation contemplates award on a best value basis. In determining whether an agency acted rationally, the court is particularly deferential to the agency's technical evaluation. In particular, the evaluation of proposals for their technical excellence or quality is a process that often requires the special expertise of procurement officials, and thus reviewing courts give the greatest deference possible to these determinations.
In order to prevail on a claim based on an express or an implied-in-fact contract with the government, a plaintiff must show: (1) mutuality of intent to contract; (2) consideration; (3) an unambiguous offer and acceptance and; (4) actual authority on the part of the government's representative to bind the government.
A modified total cost recovery is appropriate when a court can reasonably determine the difference between the cost of performance and the bid, subtracting from that subtotal an amount that reflects contractor-caused costs.
An agency decision is entitled to a presumption of regularity. Discovery of the contracting officer's reasoning is not lightly to be ordered and should not be ordered unless record evidence raises serious questions as to the rationality of the contracting officer's decision.
Wis. Stat. ? 925--214 prescribes the mode of letting a public contract and the basis upon which it was to be let, and that mode is exclusive and binding upon both a municipality and the contractor.
An express contract with the government requires proof of mutual intent to contract, including an offer, an acceptance, and consideration. A contract with the United States also requires that the Government representative who entered or ratified the agreement had actual authority to bind the United States.
If the claim to the contracting officer is not certified, pursuant to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, 41 U.S.C.S. ? 605(c)(1), it has not been properly submitted, so the contracting officer does not have authority to issue a decision.
An aggrieved bidder who makes out a prima facie case of arbitrary and capricious action by the government is entitled to a trial to prove the merits of his claim.
Miss. Code Ann. ? 31-7-13(c) provides that purchases which involve an expenditure of more than $ 2,500 may be made from the lowest and best bidder after advertising for competitive sealed bids once each week for two consecutive weeks in a regular newspaper published in the county or municipality in which such agency or governing authority is located, and, further, that the date as published for the bid opening shall not be less than five working days after the last published notice. Said notice of intention to let contracts or purchase equipment shall state the time and place at which bids shall be received, a list of contracts to be made, or types or equipment or supplies to be purchased, and if all plans and/or specifications are not published, will refer to the plans and/or specifications on file.
Contracting officers exercise broad discretion in the evaluation process and in deciding which bid is most advantageous to the United States.
Under the Small Business Administration regulations contained in 13 C.F.R. pt. 121, subpt. A (2011)2011-01-01, a contracting officer is to choose the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code that best describes the principal purpose of the product or services being acquired. 13 C.F.R. ? 121.402 (2011)2011-01-01. NAICS codes are promulgated by the Office of Management and Budget and are used to classify an economic activity or industry for many purposes. Using the already-established NAICS codes, the Small Business Administration then imposes its own limitations on size and revenue. 13 C.F.R. ? 121.201 (2011)2011-01-01. Thus, when the contracting officer designates a NAICS code for a small business set aside solicitation, the effect is both to target the type of institutions solicited and simultaneously to impose size and revenue limitations on those bidders.
A bid protestor must demonstrate that it was significantly prejudiced by the alleged errors in the procurement process. A protestor must demonstrate prejudice twice: first to establish standing and then again to prevail upon the merits. At both junctures, the test for prejudice in a post-award bid protest is the same: whether the protestor had a substantial chance of securing the contract but for the error.
The Contracts Disputes Act (CDA) is directed to agency and court procedures for resolving disputes between contractors and the government over contract performance after award. The CDA deals with contractors, not with bidders. The uniform dispute-resolution procedures engendered by the CDA may play a role in promoting competition, but it by no means is a central role.
The determination of which offer represents the overall best value to the government involves layers of decision-making and judgment calls regarding which proposals offer the overall highest technical merit, and what technical advantages are worth a higher price. The court is reluctant to second guess contracting officials in such a process.
To meet the "interested party" standard for bid protest standing under 28 U.S.C.S. ? 1491(b)(1), the plaintiff must be an actual or prospective bidder and demonstrate that it possesses a direct economic interest in the contract award. Where the plaintiff is the awardee of the contract, however, it no longer has standing under ? 1491(b)(1) as an interested party for the purpose of challenging the terms of the award. Rather, once awarded a contract, objections to the price terms of the contract award are matters of contract administration which are properly brought as claims pursuant to the court's Contract Disputes Act jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C.S. ? 1491(a)(2).
Before an incidental power can be invoked by a national bank, is that it must be "within the law." The law referred to is the National Bank Act to which banks organized thereunder owe their existence and within the scope and purview of which they must exercise their functions. The sections of the Act reviewed lend no countenance to the contention that the establishment of branch banks is within the scope and purview of these sections and hence not within the law.
The process that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) generally employs to complete a purchase and assumption of a failed bank is as follows: The FDIC will sell the assets and deposit liabilities of the failed bank to the assuming bank. The assuming bank has the option to return to the FDIC in its receiver capacity those assets that the assuming bank finds to be of limited value. The FDIC in its "corporate" capacity then purchases the returned assets from the receiver FDIC, which transfers the purchase price of the returned assets to the assuming bank. The corporate FDIC attempts to collect on the returned assets, and proceeds from these collections are applied to replenish the insurance fund.
A credit given for the amount of the check is the same as if the money had been paid over the counter on the check, and then immediately paid back again to the account, or for the use for which the credit is given.
The definition of "bond" for tax purposes is broader than its ordinary meaning in a financial context. The word "bond" is commonly understood in financial circles to be the obligation of a state or the subdivision of a state, or a private corporation, represented by a certificate for the principal, and by detachable coupons for the current interest.
Credits, by their nature, are separate transactions from the sales or other contracts on which they may be based. Consequently, the undertaking of a bank to pay, accept and pay drafts or negotiate and/or to fulfill any other obligation under the credit, is not subject to claims or defenses by the applicant resulting from his relationships with the issuing bank or the beneficiary.
Generally, the fact that a creditor may take additional security to insure payment of a principal obligation does not release or discharge the guarantor. When the additional security taken by the creditor is a new guaranty, the prior guaranty is not extinguished by the execution of the subsequent guaranty unless the subsequent guaranty was executed as a substitute for the earlier one.
The purchase of real estate by a banking association, except for use in its business, and under certain special circumstances, is expressly prohibited. Ind. Stat. Ann. ? 2932 (1901).
P.O.D. accounts are not presumed to be pay on death accounts; they are pay on death accounts. Once a person establishes four elements, the claimant is entitled to the proceeds of a P.O.D. account. The elements are as follows: (1) the account is a P.O.D. account, (2) the claimant is the P.O.D. payee, (3) the original payee is dead, and (4) that there are sums remaining in the account.
Under ? 14 of the Banking Act, Gen. Stat. 1897, ch. 18, ? 5; Gen. Stat. 1899, ? 409 (Kansas), it is provided that every officer, director, agent, or clerk of a bank doing business in Kansas who wilfully and knowingly subscribes to or makes any false report or false statement or entry in the books of such bank, or knowingly subscribes or exhibits any false writing or paper, with the intent to deceive any person as to the condition of such bank, shall be punished.
A bank account signature card with clear and unambiguous language creating a joint account with rights of survivorship creates a joint tenancy. Conversely, if the card provides a mode in which a joint account may be designated, and no such designation is made, no joint account is created.
Chapter 15A, ? 8, Laws of Utah 1945 provides in part that at least once each year the commission or its duly authorized representative shall make an examination of the place of business of each licensee and of the loans, transactions, books, papers, and records of such licensee so far as they pertain to the business licensed under this act. The actual cost of examination shall be paid to the commissioner by each licensee so examined, and the commissioner may maintain an action for the recovery of such costs in any court of competent jurisdiction.
A cardholder shall be liable for the unauthorized use of a credit card only if the card is an accepted credit card, the liability is not in excess of $ 50, and the unauthorized use occurs before the cardholder has notified the card issuer that an unauthorized use of the credit card has occurred or may occur as a result of loss, theft, or otherwise. 15 U.S.C.S. ? 1643(a).
In a common law bond case, one claiming under a fraudulent instrument after knowledge of the fraud adopts the fraud and becomes bound by it.
By Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 5339, at any time after the date fixed by the commissioner for the presentation of claims, the circuit court or judge thereof in vacation may by order authorize the commissioner to declare out of the funds remaining in his hands after the payment of expenses, one or more dividends, specifying in the order what claims, if any, are entitled to priority of payment, and shall direct the commissioner regarding the manner of payment of such prior claims, and by like order a final dividend may be declared at any time after the expiration of eight months from said date fixed for the presentation of claims.
Under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act a debt collector must send a written notice to an alleged debtor containing, among other things, the amount of the debt and statements that the consumer may dispute the debt in writing and may request written verification. 15 U.S.C.S. ? 1692g does not require that this information be received by the debtor, however. Instead, it explicitly states that a notice must be sent.
Regarding joint bank accounts, such arrangements, when entered into in good faith, are not opposed to any policy of the state, and the purposes which are sought to be accomplished by them should not be set at naught by employing in too narrow and technical a spirit the legal principles which are found to be involved. Likewise, the legislatures in several of the states have taken cognizance of the subject and have enacted legislation providing in substance that the persons in whose names a joint bank account is carried are to be deemed joint owners of the fund, or creating a disputable presumption to that effect. Oregon has no such statute applying to joint accounts in the ordinary type of bank, though provisions of that character have been made with respect to joint deposits in mutual savings banks, Or. Comp. Laws Ann. ? 40-2529, and with respect to shares or share accounts in savings and loan associations ? 41-603.
A savings and loan association is obligated to pay "dividends" on accounts of its accountholders, Mo. Rev. Stat. ?? 369.230, 369.240, but it is not obligated to pay, in addition to the dividends, interest for the same period. Dividends are the "earnings" of a savings and loan association defined in Mo. Rev. Stat. ?? 369.014(9), 369.235 (1971) as that part of the net income of an association which is payable to the owners of savings accounts, earnings in which all account holders participate equally pro rata to the participation value of their respective accounts.
A cashier is the business officer of a bank, but only in the sense of one who transacts, and not one who regulates or controls its affairs. His duty has reference to daily routine business, and not to matters involving discretionary authority, which belongs, unless delegated, to the board of directors. When a special authority is conferred upon him, or when he acts in conformity with a general usage, or an established acquiescence of his board of directors, the bank is responsible for such acts, though beyond the ordinary scope of his duties.
Del. Code Ann. Tit. 19, ? 3314(3) provides that a claimant is eligible to receive benefits if the claimant is able to work and is available for work and is actively seeking work.
Colo. Rev. Stat. ? 8-73-108(4) (Repl. 1986) provides that an individual separated from a job shall be given a full award of benefits if the following reason and pertinent condition related thereto is determined by the division to have existed: Being instructed or requested to perform a service or commit an act that is in violation of an ordinance or statute.
Under ? 11(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, it is obligatory upon an employer to "make, keep and preserve" certain records of the wages, hours, and other conditions respecting employees. Where no such records were made, kept and preserved; that does not inure to the benefit of an employee nor relieve him of the necessity of submitting competent and substantial evidence in support of a claim for overtime.
Minn. Stat. ? 268.04, subd. 18 (1994) defines "interested party," as contained in Minn. Stat. ? 268.10, subd. 2(2) (Supp. 1993), to include the most recent employer prior to the filing of a valid claim for benefits.
Timing is relevant when analyzing whether a causal connection exists. While the passage of time does not necessarily foreclose a claim of retaliation, a gap in time between protected conduct and the adverse-employment action weakens an inference of retaliatory motive. An employee may attempt to shorten the gap between her protected activity and the adverse action by showing that shortly after she engaged in the protected activity, the employer took escalating adverse and retaliatory action against her. A pattern of adverse actions that occur just after protected activity can supply the extra quantum of evidence to satisfy the causation requirement.
An employee who quits without good reason caused by her employer is disqualified from receiving unemployment benefits. Minn. Stat. ? 268.095, subd. 1(1) (2008). Whether an employee quit is a question of fact. But whether good cause justified an employee quitting is a question of law, which an appellate court reviews de novo. Good cause is defined as a reason directly related to the employment for which the employer is responsible, that is adverse to the worker, and that would compel an average, reasonable worker to quit. Minn. Stat. ? 268.095, subd. 3(a).
In calculating the amount of back pay due an illegally discharged employee, the Montana Board of Personnel Appeals utilizes a method first developed and used by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) in F.W. Woolworth Co. This method, commonly referred to as the "Woolworth" formula, has been approved by the United States Supreme Court. Under this formula, the NLRB and the Board of Personnel Appeals compute back pay on the basis of each separate calendar quarter or portion thereof from the time of the illegal discharge to the time of a proper offer of reinstatement. The quarters begin with the first day of January, April, July and October.
To demonstrate a statutory retaliation claim under the District of Columbia Human Rights Act (DCHRA), D.C. Code Ann. ? 2-1402.61 (2001), the complainant must prove that (1) he was engaged in a protected activity, or that he opposed practices made unlawful by the DCHRA; (2) the employer took an adverse personnel action against him; and, (3) a causal connection existed between the two.
An acknowledgment by the members of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board (Board) that the Board was familiar with the entire record is sufficient, and, to the extent the Board does not reconcile or address all inconsistencies between its findings and those of an appeals referee (referee), there is no requirement that the Board specifically compare its findings to those of the referee, or explain why the referee's findings are unacceptable.
Or. Rev. Stat. ? 657.176(2) provides that an individual shall be disqualified from the receipt of benefits if the authorized representative designated by the director finds that the individual has been discharged for misconduct connected with work, or voluntarily left work without good cause. Or. Admin. R. 471-30-038(2) further defines the terms used in ? 657.176(2) as follows: The distinction between voluntarily leaving and discharge is: (1) if the employee could have continued to work for the same employer for an additional period of time the separation is a voluntary leaving of work, (2) if the employee is willing to continue to work for the same employer for an additional period of time but is not allowed to do so by the employer the separation is a discharge. Both as a matter of syntax and of common sense, the statutory scheme and its implementing regulations treat "voluntarily leaving" work and "discharge" as mutually exclusive concepts. Where the employer and the employee have agreed to a mutually acceptable date on which employment would terminate, the termination should be treated as a voluntary leaving and not as a discharge.
Ala. Code ? 18.60.075 (1967) reads in relevant part: Safe employment. An employer shall (1) furnish employment which is reasonably safe; (2) furnish and use safety devices and safeguards; (3) adopt and use methods and processes reasonably adequate to render the employment or place of employment reasonably safe; and (4) do every other thing reasonably necessary to protect the life, health, safety and welfare of employees.
Minn. Stat. ? 268.09, subd. 1(b) (1990) states that a person is not entitled to receive unemployment compensation benefits if he was discharged for misconduct.
Warnings given to an employee prior to absence or tardiness justify the inference that the continued absence or tardiness was the result of the employee's wilful and wanton indifference to the best interests of the employer, thus constituting just cause for dismissal.
Conduct that results from the employee's inadvertence or inefficiency is not misconduct, Minn. Stat. ? 268.095, subd. 6(b)(2) (2012). Poor work performance is generally not considered disqualifying misconduct.
There are many industries in which it is customary to operate only during a regularly recurring period or periods of less than one year in length. Workers employed in such industries are entitled to benefits under the Colorado Unemployment Compensation Act unless their right to such benefits is limited by express provisions in the Act.
In an unemployment benefits case, an employer may establish and enforce reasonable rules governing employee absences. An employer also has a right to expect an employee to work when scheduled.
Where an employee's employment is for an indefinite term, he is an employee at will. The employer is free to fire him with or without cause, just as the employee is free to quit as, when and if he chooses.
There is no legal exception to benefits disqualification based on an applicant's good-faith belief that he will receive unemployment benefits if he quits his employment or based on the applicant's misunderstanding of the governing law.
The appellate court's review, like that of a panel of the Industrial Claim Appeals Office of Colorado, is restricted to the evidence in the record made before the hearing officer in the case.  Colo. Rev. Stat. ? 8-74-107 (2001).
Section 2 of the Pennsylvania Act of May 2, 1905, P.L. 352, provides that no child under 14 years of age shall be employed in any establishment to which the provisions of the statute apply.
The critical consideration in determining whether the extraterritorial reach of a statute violates the Commerce Clause is the overall effect of the statute on both local and interstate commerce.
All corporations falling within the terms of the Act of 1855, or the Amendment of 1857, are, so far as the provisions of that statute, or that amendment extend, concluded by the action of the convention of 1873.
No one has an absolute right to do things in the privacy of his own home which will affect himself or others adversely.
The United States and Minnesota Constitutions protect against unreasonable searches and seizures. U.S. Const. amend. IV; Minn. Const. art. I, ? 10. The brief seizure of a person for investigatory purposes is not unreasonable if an officer has a particular and objective basis for suspecting the particular person seized of criminal activity. But a mere hunch, absent other objectively reasonable articulable facts, will not justify a seizure. Suspicion is reasonable if the stop was not the product of mere whim, caprice, or idle curiosity.
To obtain constitutional standing, a litigant must not only demonstrate an actual injury but also that the injury or threat of injury is both real and immediate, not conjectural or hypothetical. Past exposure to illegal conduct does not in itself show a present case or controversy if unaccompanied by any continuing, present adverse effects.
The due-process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution requires at least a fair and adequate warning by court rule or notice of the imposition of the sanctions or penalties to be invoked for the failure to comply with a court order. Lacking such forewarning, a hearing should be had on the imposition of a penalty.
Wis. Const. art. I, ? 1, in absence of the police power, would prohibit any legislation which operated to restrict the rights and freedom of one individual or class and not of another. It has also been held that such provision of the state constitution is substantially equivalent to the equal protection of the laws and due process clauses of the Fourteenth amendment.
The Fourteenth Amendment is a distinct restriction on the states and their courts, and the Fifth Amendment and Fourteenth Amendment have reciprocal prohibitions and are in the same words. But in another provision the United States Constitution prescribes a common law jury in federal courts. No such provision exists in regard to state courts. U.S. Const. amend. XIV, ? 1, declares that citizens of the United States are citizens of the state in which they reside, and that no state shall by law abridge their privileges and immunities as citizens, or deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, or deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. The whole section clearly shows that equal rights, immunities, and protection in each state, in accordance with its laws, are declared and enjoined. It does not purport to legislate for the state, or define what its laws shall be, or how its courts shall be composed, or what their process or proceedings shall be. These the state can not justly yield without destroying its autonomy. The existence of the several states, with constitutions and laws, and courts to administer the laws, is assured; but equal rights of citizenship and equal personal rights of all persons affected by the administration of the laws are the only things commanded.
The double jeopardy clause of the Fifth Amendment, U.S. Const. amend. V, made applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment, U.S. Const. amend. XIV, due process clause, provides that no person shall be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb. The New Mexico and federal constitutional prohibitions against double jeopardy are of such similarity that they should be construed and interpreted in the same fashion. The double jeopardy clause protects against a second prosecution for the same offense after acquittal, protects against a second prosecution for the same offense after conviction, and protects against multiple punishments for the same offense.
The confrontation clause is a guarantee that a defendant may personally confront his accusers at trial. Its purpose is to make certain that a defendant is not convicted on the basis of statements that are unsworn and made out of court, depriving the defendant of his opportunity for cross-examination and the jury of its chance to view the demeanor of the declarant.
The emerging constitutional right of privacy, though not absolute, must be measured against certain State interests with the balance turning on the impact of the decision on the life of the individual. As the impact increases, so must the importance of the State's interest. Once justified, the extent of the State's intrusion is not unlimited. It must also appear that the means utilized to serve the State's interest are necessary and reasonable or, in other words, in light of alternative means, the least intrusive.
The constitutional protection of the right to privacy extends to two types of privacy interests. One is the individual interest in avoiding disclosure of personal matters, and another is the interest in independence in making certain kinds of important decisions.
All the provisions of a constitution must receive a practical commonsense construction. They must be considered with reference to the prior state of the law, and with reference to the mischief intended to be remedied by the change. In aid of this canon of interpretation, the court may also examine the debates which occurred at the time of the adoption of the part of the constitution under analysis, and learn from the statements of the constitution makers themselves, if possible, their purposes and intentions.
Determination of the scope and constitutionality of legislation in advance of its immediate adverse effect in the context of a concrete case involves too remote and abstract an inquiry for the proper exercise of the judicial function.
Alaska's constitutional prohibition against double jeopardy prevents one from receiving multiple prison sentences for the same offense. In determining what constitutes the same offense for double jeopardy purposes, the court abandons the "same-evidence" test in favor of the following approach: The court now meets the problem in another way, with confidence that it can be solved, by focusing upon the quality of the differences, if any exist, between the separate statutory offenses, as such differences relate to the basic interests sought to be vindicated or protected by the statutes. The trial judge first compares the different statutes in question, as they apply to the facts of the case, to determine whether there are involved differences in intent or conduct. He then judges any such differences he finds in light of the basic interests of society to be vindicated or protected, and decide whether those differences are substantial or significant enough to warrant multiple punishments. If there are no such differences, or if they are insignificant or insubstantial, then only one sentence may be imposed under double jeopardy.
The Federal Constitution declares that no state shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts. The inhibition is against impairing the obligation of a contract and not the contract itself. In every case that arises in which this question is involved, it is essential that it be ascertained what the obligation of the contract is that is alleged to be impaired.
Under Wis. Const. art. I, ? 1, a classification made by the legislature that does not concern a suspect class or implicate a fundamental right must bear a rational relationship to a legitimate government interest.
Where the objective of the subsequent action is punishment, the acquittal is a bar because to entertain the second proceeding for punishment would subject a defendant to double jeopardy.
No presumption of receipt can arise where the court is asked to presume that there was a mailing. One presumption may not be based on another.
The clear and unambiguous purpose of the statutory language "at the request of a law enforcement officer" of N.D. Cent. Code ? 39-20-07(3) is to enable medical personnel to withdraw blood only at the request of a public servant authorized to engage in investigations for violations of law, and not an ordinary citizen.
For purposes of Tenn. R. Evid. 403, unfairly prejudicial evidence is evidence with a primary purpose of eliciting emotions of bias, sympathy, hatred, contempt, retribution, or horror.
Photographs are admissible evidence if authenticated, relevant, and not subject to any exclusionary rule. The requirement of authentication or identification as a condition precedent to admissibility is satisfied by evidence sufficient to support a finding that the matter in question is what its proponent claims. In the case of photographs, the proponent must establish that they are an accurate representation of the scene or object depicted.
The trial court is vested with discretion in determining whether to exclude expert testimony because it is deemed unnecessary or not helpful to the trier of the factual issues.
Photographs are admissible as evidence of anything which it is competent for a witness to describe in words, and that their admissibility does not depend upon whether the objects pictured could be described in words, but on whether it would be helpful to permit the witness to supplement his description by their use. Neither are photographs inadmissible merely because they present vividly to the jurors the details of a shocking crime. Any evidence, oral or visual, disclosing the facts and circumstances surrounding the commission of a crime is admissible. The fact that such evidence shows that the offense was particularly atrocious and might arouse the righteous indignation of the jurors does not render the same inadmissible.
Mere hope or suspicion that favorable evidence is available is not enough to require that an expert be appointed. The defendant has the burden to demonstrate his particularized need by establishing that the expert services would materially help him in preparing his defense.
The appellate court will not revise the action of the court below as to questions permitted on cross-examination, unless the record clearly shows that improper indulgence was allowed, or that facts palpably irrelevant and immaterial were elicited. In this matter, much must be left to the discretion of the judge trying the cause; and his action ought not to be reviewed by the appellate court, except in cases where it is plain that this discretion has been abused, to the injury of the party complaining. While it is difficult, if not impossible, to lay down any general rule as to the latitude allowable on cross-examination, this much at least is clear--that a party against whom a witness is called, has the right, by cross-examination, to test the strength and accuracy of his recollection of the matters testified to by him, and to show his connection with the facts, the interest he took in the transactions of which he speaks, and his bias or feeling in the case before the court.
Documents prepared from personal knowledge are in aid and a part of the testimony of an expert and as such are also of assistance to the finders of the facts. Colorado favors the admissibility and not the rejection of evidence in civil actions in accordance with the most convenient methods prescribed by statute and the rules of evidence. Colo. R. Civ. P. 43.
In these days of quantity production and distribution and of standard and uniform designs of vehicles, mere sameness of makes cannot tend to prove that a vehicle seen in one city was used previously in the commission of a crime elsewhere in the same county.
The "burden of evidence" is the burden of "getting by" the judge to the jury, by making a prima facie showing as to each factual ingredient necessary to establish a prima facie case. Having done this, a plaintiff has discharged his burden of evidence, and the burden shifts to a defendant to produce, if he desires, competent controverting evidence which, if believed, will offset the plaintiff's prima facie case. If this is done the defendant has met the burden of evidence cast upon him, and made a prima facie defense, whereupon the burden swings back to the plaintiff to bring forward evidence in rebuttal, and so on. But during all this time the burden of proof, the risk of nonpersuasion, remains with the plaintiff, except as to affirmative defenses, etc. The burden of evidence is simply the burden of making or meeting a prima facie case.
Where you have a state of fact proven by unimpeached and uncontradicted witnesses, then you cannot make an issue for the jury by the proof of circumstances which raises a contrary inference when from the positive testimony it affirmatively appears that the fact sought to be inferred did not exist. That is, circumstantial evidence cannot overcome positive, conclusive, uncontradicted, and unimpeached evidence.
Prejudicial effect of evidence of other crimes outweighs its probative value when purpose for which it is admitted is not a contested issue. Probative value of other-crimes evidence outweighs its prejudicial effect where the issue of intent is a contested one.
Wis. Stat. ? 908.045(4) provides that: a statement that was at the time of its making so far contrary to the declarant's pecuniary or proprietary interest, or so far tended to subject the declarant to civil or criminal liability or to render invalid a claim by the declarant against another or to make the declarant an object of hatred, ridicule, or disgrace, that a reasonable person in the declarant's position would not have made the statement unless the person believed it to be true. A statement tending to expose the declarant to criminal liability and offered to exculpate the accused is not admissible unless corroborated.
Inadmissible evidence may become admissible where the defendant "opens the door" to questioning on that evidence. The evidence relied upon to "open the door" must leave the trier of fact with a false or misleading impression of the facts related.
Trial courts will draw an adverse inference from the fact of the failure of a party to call a witness when: (i) the witness is available to testify on behalf of the party; (ii) the witness is unavailable in a physical or practical sense to the opposing party; (iii) the testimony of the witness would be relevant and noncumulative; and (iv) the witness is not prejudiced against the party who failed to call him.
The language of Ind. Code ? 35-37-4-6 seems to contemplate a separate hearing regarding child hearsay, followed by a trial at which the child testifies and the previously considered hearsay is admitted. Ind. Code ? 35-37-4-6(i).
Ohio v. Roberts must be read consistently with the question it answered, the authority it cited, and its own facts. All of these indicate that Roberts simply reaffirmed a longstanding rule, foreshadowed in Pointer v. Texas, established in Barber, and refined in a line of cases up through Roberts, that applies unavailability analysis to prior testimony. Roberts cannot fairly be read to stand for the radical proposition that no out-of-court statement can be introduced by the government without a showing that the declarant is unavailable.
Tenn. R. Evid. 401 defines relevant evidence as evidence having any tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence. Tenn. R. Evid. 401. Tenn. R. Evid. 611(b) provides that a witness may be cross-examined on any matter relevant to any issue in the case, including credibility. Tenn. R. Evid. 611(b).
Where two persons are indebted to each other on disconnected demands, and one becomes insolvent, the solvent party can not maintain an action for that cause alone, to compel an equitable set-off before the debt owing by the insolvent party becomes due. If before it becomes due, he assigns the demand against the solvent party, the assignee may recover the assigned demand, free from all claims of set-off on the part of the solvent debtor against the insolvent, where there is no pretense that the assignment of the claim was made with intent to defeat the set-off. When no other ground exists to support an equitable set-off than the insolvency of one of two parties, severally indebted to each other, the right of set-off does not attach until the debt owing by the insolvent has become due.
Sections 67(d), and 70(3) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.S.C.S. ?? 107(d), 110(3) (Act), provide in part that a transfer made or an obligation incurred by a debtor adjudged a bankrupt under this Act, which is fraudulent under this subdivision against creditors of such debtor having claims provable under this Act, shall be null and void against the trustee, except as to a bona-fide purchaser, lienor, or obligee for a present fair equivalent value. A transfer made or suffered or obligation incurred by a debtor adjudged a bankrupt under this Act which, under any federal or state law applicable thereto, is fraudulent as against or voidable for any other reason by any creditor of the debtor, having a claim provable under this Act, shall be null and void as against the trustee of such debtor. Debts of the bankrupt may be proved and allowed against his estate which are founded upon a fixed liability, as evidenced by a judgment or an instrument in writing, absolutely owing at the time of the filing of the petition by or against him, whether then payable or not, with any interest thereon which would have been recoverable at that date or with a rebate of interest upon such as were not then payable and did not bear interest. 11 U.S.C.S. ? 103(a).
The Bankruptcy Act of 1898, ch. 541, ? 60b provides: If a bankrupt shall have given a preference, and the person receiving it, or to be benefited thereby, or his agent acting therein, shall have had reasonable cause to believe that it was intended thereby to give a preference, it shall be voidable by the trustee, and he may recover the property or its value from such person.
When the intention to prefer is the only reasonable inference from the facts, no other evidence of express intention to prefer is required.
Even solvent debtors are eligible for bankruptcy filing, so long as they are under sufficient, more-than-speculative financial pressure to justify their invocation of the protections of the Bankruptcy Code.
A transfer of money by a third person to a creditor of the bankrupt, which transfer does not issue from the assets of the bankrupt, does not diminish the bankrupt's estate and is, therefore, not a voidable preference.
11 U.S.C.S. ? 1123(a)(4) requires that a Chapter 11 plan provide the same treatment for all claims or interests in each class unless the holder of such claim or interest agrees to less favorable treatment.
Where a bankrupt's conveyances of property occurred before the passage of the bankrupt act, it is manifest that the transactions, however unfair they may have been, were not frauds committed in view of the enactment of the statute, nor in violation of its provisions. 5 U.S. Statutes at Large, 442, c. 9, ? 2.
A threshold issue to determining that a debt is nondischargeable is a showing that the claim is subject to a discharge in a chapter 7 proceeding. Where conduct occurs after the petition date, but before conversion to chapter 7, courts have recognized that the claim is still subject to a dischargeability determination because, pursuant to 11 U.S.C.S. ? 348(d), a claim arising out of post-petition, pre-conversion conduct is treated as if it arose pre-petition.
A debt upon which a judgment is rendered since the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy must be proved. The debt is not extinguished. The instrument, contract, or obligation, upon which the debt arises, is extinguished, but not the debt. The debt remains. If this is not so, the judgment would destroy itself by extinguishing the very foundation upon which it is built. The debt is founded upon contract; it is now founded upon judgment, but it is nevertheless the same debt. A judgment operates to extinguish a debt only when it produces the fruits of a judgment. It operates as a change of remedy merely. It is a security of a higher nature. It is still only a security for the original cause of action.
Although broad in scope, the automatic stay is subject to numerous exceptions. The exception provided in 11 U.S.C.S. ? 362(b)(3) exempts from the automatic stay any act to perfect, or to maintain or continue the perfection of, an interest in property to the extent that a trustee's rights and powers are subject to such perfection under 11 U.S.C.S. ? 546(b). Section 546(b) establishes certain limits on the trustee's avoiding powers. In part, ? 546(b) provides that the rights and powers of a trustee are subject to any generally applicable law that permits perfection of an interest in property to be effective against an entity that acquires rights in such property before the date of perfection. Thus, ? 546(b) will apply to restrict the trustee's avoiding power where an interest is created prior to bankruptcy and its post-petition perfection relates back, as a matter of law, to the date of its creation.
The test of insolvency pursuant to ? 1(15) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.S.C.S. ? 1, is the amount of cash which the assets would have brought on a fair sale at the time when the alleged act of bankruptcy was committed. Statutory as well as commercial insolvency arises out of, and consists in, inability to pay debts. One is insolvent under the statute when his assets, if converted into cash, at a fair not forced sale will not pay them. In both cases solvency is tested by ability to pay debts, in the one case promptly, in the other, in time. In testing both kinds of insolvency, the realities of the situation control. In both kinds it is the actual, rather than the theoretical, condition of the debtor that determines it.
For purposes of the prejudice inquiry under 11 U.S.C.S. ? 707(a), legal prejudice is found to exist where assets which would otherwise be available to creditors are lost because of the dismissal.
Any claim or judgment rendered for the conversion of personal property, possession of which was not obtained by false representations or pretenses, is released by a bankrupt's discharge.
Where a preference is given to a bona-fide creditor, the burden of proof is on him who challenges the transaction. The underlying principle is that a debtor's property shall not be fraudulently diverted from the payment of his debts. This involves the mutual intent of both debtor and preferred creditor to defraud. Their act must, in fact, hinder or delay other creditors in collecting their debts. The mere fact that other creditors are hindered or delayed as a result, in giving preference to one creditor, is not enough, nor is the knowledge of insolvency by the preferred creditor a sufficient reason for the impeachment of the security taken from the debtor. This latter circumstance, standing alone, would be a cause on the part of a creditor to secure a valid indebtedness.
The common law has always, in the absence of every badge of fraud, sanctioned the right of one creditor to obtain the payment of his debt from the debtor, to the exclusion of other creditors.
Ind. Code ? 6-1.1-24-2 provides in part: Notice of auction sale. Section 2. In addition to the delinquency list required under Ind. Code ? 6-1.1-24-1, each county auditor shall prepare a notice. The notice shall contain: (1) a list of real property eligible for sale under this chapter.
A tax due and unpaid under this article shall be a debt due the State. It shall be a personal obligation of the taxpayer and shall be a lien upon all property used in the business or occupation upon which such tax is imposed and said lien shall have priority over all other liens and obligations except those due the United States. W. Va. Code ? 11-13-12 (1937).
Wis. Stat. ? 70.11 (1953), entitled property exempt from taxation, provides that: The property described in this section is exempted from general property taxes: educational, religious and benevolent institutions; women's clubs; historical societies; fraternities; libraries. Property owned and used exclusively by educational institutions offering regular courses six months in the year; or by churches or religious, educational or benevolent associations; including parsonages, whether of local churches, or districts, and occupied by the pastor permanently.
Miss. Code ? 7795 (1927) provides, among other things, that foreign building and loan associations shall pay their privilege taxes direct to the auditor of public accounts, while domestic building and loan associations are required to pay them to the tax collectors of the counties in which the privilege is exercised.
Where a parent corporation and its subsidiaries are to be taxed on the basis of their combined income they are entitled to calculate an apportionment factor based on combined sales, property, and payroll.
Pursuant to Okla. Stat. tit. 68, ? 15.50 (1951), an action to recover the amount of ad valorem taxes paid under protest is authorized only where the illegality of the tax arises by reason of some action from which the laws provide no appeal.
Amanufacturer's factory cost, when applied to an entire inventory, some items of which have been unsalable for many years, does not necessarily reflect true cash value. Such cost may be evidence of value, but it is not the sole measure of value in the face of substantial evidence of obsolescence.
Under the Selective Sales and Use Tax Act of March 6, 1956, Pa. Stat. Ann. tit. 72, ? 3403-2, requires that a sales tax be collected by a seller on any sale of sporting goods or athletic equipment designed for a particular sport and which are not used or worn when not engaged in that sport.
Actual allowable expenses such as gasoline and tolls are deductible if incurred in a trade or business and if they do not constitute personal commuting expenses.  I.R.C. ? 162.
Good-will is not in and of itself property, but it is an incident that may attach to, or, in some cases, be connected with it. Good-will, as property, is intangible, and merely an incident of other property. The transfer of a good-will, involving the right to carry on the old business and to represent that it is the old business that the purchaser is carrying on, is really based, not so much on the sale of the property that is itself conveyed, as it is upon the sale of the business as a going concern.
The requirements of 26 U.S.C.S. ? 6015(b)(1) are stated in the conjunctive. Accordingly, a failure to meet any one of them prevents a requesting spouse from qualifying for 26 U.S.C.S. ? 6015(b) relief.
It is important that the Wyoming Board of Equalization designate which type of proceeding it is holding pursuant to Wyo. Stat. Ann. ? 39-11-102.1(c)(viii), either regulatory or adjudicatory.
A house trailer that is permanently attached to land by a three wall addition is subject to assessment as real property.
Any property that generates income can be valued, for tax purposes, using the income capitalization approach. In the income capitalization approach, an appraiser analyzes a property's capacity to generate future benefits and capitalizes the income into an indication of present value. The principle of anticipation is fundamental to the approach. Anticipation is defined as the perception that value is created by the expectation of benefits to be derived in the future.
Where a taxpayer has not shown that application of national and local standards in connection with a determination of his "basic living expenses" per Treas. Reg. ? 301.6343-1(b)(4)(i) would deprive him of adequate means to provide for basic living expenses per IRC ? 7122(d)(2)(B), it is not an abuse of discretion for the IRS Appeals Office to rely upon the national and local standards, even if doing so forces the taxpayer to change his lifestyle.
In the context of determining whether an entity is exempt from property taxes, that a donor has earmarked or restricted its donation does not change the analysis of whether the beneficiaries of the charity receive goods or services free or at substantially reduced cost.
It may be conceded that an owner of property may be estopped by his conduct from questioning the validity of an assessment against the same, although it is void because there was no actual legal authority upon which it could rest, if there is color of law to sustain the proceeding upon which such assessment is based. Unconstitutional laws, or those repealed by implication, or susceptible of more than one meaning, which have not been passed upon by the courts and by reason of such fact might cause persons to be misled and to act to their disadvantage, furnish illustrations of what is meant by the terms "apparent authority" or "color of law." So long as all concerned are acting in good faith, the principle of estoppel applies.
The power of taxation is coextensive with sovereignty. The State has no power to tax persons and things not within its territorial jurisdiction. It must have jurisdiction over the person or the property of the owner. It may tax all property having a situs within its territorial jurisdiction.
The purpose of ORS 307.162 is to exempt from taxation ordinary church edifices owned and used in the usual way for religious worship.
The interest does not begin to accrue until the period beginning four months after the due date of the return or the date a tax is paid, whichever is the later. ORS 314.415 (1973 Replacement Part and 1975 Replacement Part) (Oregon).
An "alternate payee" is defined as a person who has a claim to payments from a pension plan as provided for in a domestic relations order (DRO). 29 U.S.C.S. ? 1056(d)(3)(K) (2006)2006-01-01. The statue requires that the plan administrator give alternate payees notice of the submission of a DRO and specifically describe the procedures identified in the plan for the determination of the qualification status of the DRO. 29 U.S.C.S. ? 1056(d)(3)(G)(i)(I). The plan administrator also must give alternate payees notice of the plan administrator's ruling on qualification. 29 U.S.C.S. ? 1056(d)(3)(G)(i)(II). In the event of judicial review, the statute requires that the plan administrator separately account for benefits that would have been paid to the alternate payee but for the decision not to qualify the DRO. 29 U.S.C.S. ? 1056(d)(3)(H)(i). In order to make these provisions meaningful, an alternate payee--the person adversely affected by the decision-- must be able to bring a court action for judicial review of the plan administrator's qualification determination.
In Dillingham, the Supreme Court of the United States points out that its efforts at applying the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), 29 U.S.C.S. ? 1144(a), yielded a two-part inquiry for deciding whether a state law relates to an ERISA plan: A law relates to a covered employee benefit plan for purposes of ? 1144(a) if it has a connection with or reference to such a plan. Under the latter inquiry, it holds to be preempted: a law that imposed requirements by specific reference to ERISA welfare benefit plans; a law that specifically exempted ERISA plans from an otherwise generally applicable garnishment provision; and a common-law cause of action for wrongful discharge, the elements of which were expressly premised on the existence of an employee pension plan and an employer's aim to interfere with ERISA rights. A law that does not refer to ERISA plans may yet be preempted if it has a connection with ERISA plans.
Nev. Rev. Stat. ? 286.3007(3) applies to any employee meeting the statutory eligibility criteria, whether they will retire at full or reduced benefit levels, and any service credit purchase must be funded by the Employers Insurance Company of Nevada.
ORS 237.275 (Oregon) requires maintenance of a separate account for each member of the Public Employes' Retirement System and that the account show the amount of the member's contributions plus the interest which they have earned. ORS 237.111 (Oregon), which allows withdrawal on termination of membership prior to earliest retirement age, provides that the member may withdraw his "account." The annuity allowed by ORS 237.147 (Oregon) shall be based on the accumulated contributions and interest thereon. The option to receive lump sum payment as mentioned in ORS 237.151 (Oregon) calls for an amount which consists in part of the employee's contributions plus interest earnings thereon. And ORS 237.165 (Oregon) provides for payments if the member dies before retiring calls for payment of the amount of money credited at the time of his death to his account.
In a case brought under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C.S. ? 1001 et seq., in deciding whether a plan administrator's discretionary decision is supported by substantial evidence, a reviewing court cannot substitute its own judgment for the insurer as if it were considering the issue of eligibility anew. Rather, a court asks whether there is such evidence that a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support the conclusion reached by the administrator, which requires more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.
Where prompt payment has, by a consistent course of conduct, been waived, the member cannot be expelled without some notice that further indulgence will cease and that no further delays will be granted, and that hence it is incumbent on him to pay in strict accordance with the laws of the order.
Contractual rights can arise prior to the completion of the service necessary to a pension. Such rights are subject to subsequent completion of the necessary service.
Employment Retirement Income Security Act welfare plans provide important protections for plan participants and their dependants. Many such welfare benefit plans require participants injured by a third party to reimburse the plan for any benefits the plan provides for the injury, if the participant later recovers money from the third party, e.g., as a result of a lawsuit or an out-of-court settlement. Courts have acknowledged that the requirement is valid.
In earlier years, the common understanding of a "pension" was that it was a gratuity or bounty springing from the appreciation and graciousness of the sovereign, granted for services previously rendered and which at the time they were rendered gave rise to no legal obligation, the payment of which might be given or withheld at pleasure.
By its terms, Or. Rev. Stat. ? 237.153(1) (1989) applies only to unused sick leave that was accumulated by an employee member of the system while in the service of any public employer participating in the system. Although the statute itself does not expressly define what is meant by the term member, context makes clear that it refers to a member of Public Employees Retirement System (PERS). Or. Rev. Stat. ?? 237.011, ORS 238.005(12).  Thus, the statute applies only to sick leave that was accumulated by an employee member of PERS while in the service of an employer participating in PERS. It does not apply to sick leave that was accumulated while an employee worked for someone other than a participating employer.
When the pension benefit plan gives the administrator or fiduciary discretion to determine benefit eligibility or construe plan terms a deferential "arbitrary and capricious" standard of judicial review is employed to review those determinations. This standard of review has been applied to plans covered under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Similarly, the "arbitrary and capricious" standard of review also has been utilized in federal courts when evaluating trustees' determinations under Labor Management Relations Act pension plans even though that statutory scheme does not explicitly authorize review of such determinations.
The purpose of the Pennsylvania civil service acts is to insure employment, and security and protection for faithful and obedient public servants, regardless of political affiliation.
There is an exception to the general rule denying any vested right in gratuitous pensions, which is where any particular payment under a pension plan becomes due, the pensioner has a vested right to such due payment. This exception applies to payments that have accrued and to them only, and it does not purport to confer vested rights to future payments that have not accrued, which would constitute a violation of the general rule above quoted. But if the pension law is still in effect when a payment under terms of that law becomes due the pensioner, he thereby acquires a vested right in such payment because it accrues to him under a law then in effect and not because of any consideration flowing from the pensioner that binds the government to pay him anything. This could not be said of future payments that have never accrued when the law is amended or repealed. Where, by the terms of any public employees' pension statute a particular pension payment becomes due and payable, the pensioner's right to that payment is vested and can not be adversely affected by subsequent legislation.
With respect to its anti-dumping duty determinations, the Department of Commerce must do more than simply state that its conclusions are justified because they are in accord with actions in prior reviews; rather, it must cogently explain why it has exercised its discretion in a given manner.
The court may not substitute its view of the data for that of the International Trade Commission but may only consider whether a challenged determination is supported by substantial evidence.
Although Customs and Border Protection (Customs) usually enjoys a statutory presumption of correctness in its classification decisions, this does not apply to pure issues of law in a summary judgment motion before the court. A court does not defer to Customs' decisions because it has been tasked by Congress to conduct a de novo review, and to determine the correct classification based on the record made before it. Ultimately, the court's duty is to find the correct result, by whatever procedure is best suited to the case.
19 U.S.C.S. ? 1677b(c)(4)(A) requires that the U.S. Department of Commerce in valuing factors of production in an antidumping review shall utilize, to the extent possible, the prices or costs of factors of production in one or more market economy countries that are at a level of economic development comparable to that of the non-market economy country.
The plain language of 19 U.S.C.S. ? 1677(7) requires the International Trade Commission determine whether material injury is by reason of the imports.
U.S. Gen. R. Interpretation Harmonized Tariff Sched. 3(a), 19 U.S.C.S. ? 1202, explanatory n., advises that, although it is not practicable to lay down hard and fast rules by which to determine whether one heading more specifically describes the goods than another, in general: (a) A description by name is more specific than a description by class, (b) If the goods answer to a description which more clearly identifies them, that description is more specific than one where identification is less complete.
The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) binational review system is largely predicated on the rules and procedures of the binational panel review system created by the United States -- Canada Free Trade Agreement (CFTA). North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act Statement of Administrative Action. CFTA preceded NAFTA.
Commerce's final determination in an antidumping duty investigation will be sustained if it is supported by substantial evidence on the record and is otherwise in accordance with law.  19 U.S.C.S. ? 1516a(b)(1)(B)(1994)1994-01-01.
To adjust for certain activities in the United States, the exporter's sales price calculations start with the actual price involved in the arm's length transaction between the importer and an unrelated purchaser in the United States, and work back to an estimation of the price the producer received for the merchandise.
The occurrence of a clerical error while undertaking one task does not logically lead to the conclusion that completely dissimilar clerical errors occurred while undertaking a completely dissimilar task.
U.S. Gen. R. Interpretation Harmonized Tariff Sched. 2(b), 19 U.S.C.S. ? 1202, directly applies to the classification of mixtures and refers to U.S. Gen. R. Interpretation Harmonized Tariff Sched. 3, 19 U.S.C.S. ? 1202 (GRI), for guidelines for classification. Because GRI 3(b) applies to mixtures and provides that for goods not classifiable under GRI 3(a)-- in which the most specific description is preferred to the more general description in headings--the mixture shall be classified according to the material or component which gives it its "essential character."
In making its determination that an interested party did not act to the best of its ability, the United States Department of Commerce (DOC) cannot merely recite the relevant standard or repeat its facts available finding. Rather, in order to satisfy its statutory obligations in conducting an administrative review of an antidumping order, the DOC must be explicit in its reason for applying adverse inferences. If respondent claims an inability to comply, in order to apply adverse inferences the Department must also conclude that the exporter had the ability to comply with the request for information and did not do so.
19 U.S.C.S. ? 1677m(d) mandates that, before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) can resort to facts otherwise available, a party must be given prompt notice of any deficiency in the information it has submitted to the ITC, and it must be given an opportunity to remedy that deficiency.
Where a subsidiary finding is unfounded, the U.S. Court of International Trade will remand the case only if the court is in substantial doubt whether the administrative agency would have made the same ultimate finding with the erroneous finding removed from the picture.
An affirmative injury determination requires both: (1) present material injury; and (2) a finding that the material injury is "by reason of" the subject imports.
The Uruguay Round Agreements Act, Pub. L. No. 103-465, 108 Stat. 4809 (1994), states that normally, the date of sale would be the date of contract, purchase order, order confirmation or invoice, whichever establishes the material terms of sale.
In one case, the court has defined "clothing" as a covering for the human body or garments in general: all the garments and accessories worn by a person at any one time. Because clothing is defined as a "garment," and neither the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) nor its legislative history defines that term, it is necessary to ascertain its common meaning. The court has defined the term "garment" as an article of outer clothing (as a coat or dress) usually exclusive of accessories. Thus, based on a common understanding of the term "sports," the court finds that "sports clothing" is defined as outer coverings or articles worn on the body while participating in sports.
To make an affirmative determination, the U.S. International Trade Commission must find: (1) a present material injury or a threat thereof, and (2) causation of such harm by reason of subject imports. The Commission must show both that the harm suffered by the domestic industry is not inconsequential, immaterial, or unimportant, and that there exists a causal--not merely temporal--connection between the subject imports and the material injury. It must analyze contradictory evidence or evidence from which conflicting inferences could be drawn, to ensure that the subject imports are causing the injury. Further, the Commission must consider three factors in conducting its determination: (I) the volume of imports of the subject merchandise, (II) the effect of imports of that merchandise on prices for domestic like products, and (III) the impact of imports of such merchandise on domestic producers of domestic like products, but only in the context of production operations in the United States. 19 U.S.C.S. ? 1677(7)(B)(i). The Commission may also consider such other economic factors as are relevant to the determination. ? 1677(7)(B)(ii).
Customs has the obligation to collect a cash deposit on goods subject to an outstanding countervailing duty order in the amount equal to the countervailable subsidy. Under 19 U.S.C.S. ? 1671e(a), Customs is directed to assess countervailing duty on goods found to be within the scope of a countervailing duty order.
Ct. Int'l Trade R. 56.2 only authorizes a motion for preliminary injunction to enjoin liquidation of entries that are the subject to the action. Ct. Int'l Trade R. 56.2(a).
It is the established policy of the appellate court in reviewing the findings of the industrial commission that its function is not to determine whether on the facts the decision of the commission is correct, or even preferable to another, but rather, and only, to determine whether the findings have sufficient basis of inference reasonably to be drawn from the facts. The same policy has been expressed in cases saying that the findings of fact of the commission are entitled to very great weight and that a court will not disturb them unless they are manifestly contrary to the evidence. In determining whether the facts and the reasonable inferences to be drawn from them sustain the findings of the industrial commission, the evidence must be viewed in the light most favorable to such findings.
If a work activity precipitates, aggravates and accelerates beyond normal progression, a progressively deteriorating or degenerative condition, it is an accident causing injury or disease and the employee should recover even if there is no definite breakage.
A principal is immune from tort but liable in worker's compensation, anytime the principal contracts to do any work, irrespective of whether it is a part of the principal's trade, business or occupation, and then contracts with another party for the performance of the work. This immunity is to be extended to all principals, however far removed from the direct employer of the injured worker, who contracted to perform the work in which the injured party is engaged at the time of injury. This concept has been described as the "two-contract" theory of defense.
The fact that the settlement of medical benefits fails to fit within the framework of the 208 week provision of W. Va. Code ? 23-5-16 (2005) is strong evidence that the legislature did not intend for the statute to be applied to such settlements.
A neurosis is a compensable injury under the Workmen's Compensation Law if its causal connection with the accident is shown by clear evidence.
An injury arises out of employment when a causal nexus exists between the injury sustained and the duties or service performed by the injured employee. Such a nexus is established when a reasonably prudent person considers a risk to be incidental to the employment at the time of entering into it.
Losses attributable to industrial injuries are compensable, but losses attributable to other factors are not. Misconduct should be--and is--irrelevant except as it pertains to this causation question. Payment of benefits does not depend on a claimant's good moral character, but is based simply on an injury within the scope of the workers' compensation statutes. Termination reasons unrelated to the industrial injury, such as layoff, strike, economic conditions, or misconduct become significant only where the evidence demonstrates that they, rather than claimant's disability, caused the subsequent inability to secure work.
Mental conditions arising from compensable physical injuries are also compensable. One of the many potential consequences of a work injury is the diminution or complete loss of the ability to earn a living, which can, in turn, cause depression.
In deciding whether a workers' compensation claim is properly analyzed as an injury or an occupational disease, it is necessary to determine whether the condition developed gradually or suddenly. In making that determination, it is important to focus on the onset of the condition itself, rather than the onset of the condition's symptoms.
See Code ? 72-165, as amended by Act No. 1167 of the 1972 Acts of the General Assembly (57 Stat. 2339, 2344) (South Carolina).
To be eligible for disability benefits, the claimant's doctor must verify disability in a "report" filed with the North Dakota Workers' Compensation Bureau. Former N.D. Cent. Code ? 65-05-08.1(2) (1995). The certifying doctor's report must first include the medical basis established by medical evidence supported by objective medical findings for the certification of disability. Former N.D. Cent. Code ? 65-05-08.1(2)(a) (1995).
The rationale behind the noncompensability of injuries sustained while an employee is commuting is that getting to work is considered to be an employee's own responsibility and ordinarily does not involve advancing the employer's interests. Moreover, the hazards encountered by an employee while commuting to work are common to all workers, no matter what their job, and, hence, such risks cannot be directly attributable to a person's particular employment.
Md. Ann. Code art. 101, ? 66(2) does not give the State of Maryland Treasurer the right, nor places upon him the duty, to pass upon the legal merits of claims adjudicated by the Maryland Workmen's Compensation Commission and awarded against the Subsequent Injury Fund.
A court defers to the Labor and Industrial Relations Commission on issues of fact, including issues involving credibility of witnesses and the weight to be given to their testimony. Conflicting medical theories present a credibility determination for the Commission. When causation depends on the acceptance or rejection of conflicting medical opinions or theories, it is up to the Commission and not the reviewing court to decide which of the two lines of expert reasoning was more credible. Furthermore, any doubt as to the right of an employee to compensation should be resolved in favor of the injured employee.
There is no method provided by law by which the Mississippi Workmen's Compensation Commission may adjust equities between insurance companies. Absent statutory provisions, the resolution of contribution between successive carriers, whether based on contract or equity, should be resolved in an action at law or equity, apart from the workmen's compensation determination.
The Supreme Court of Wyoming's judicial review of agency decisions is as a reviewing court of the first instance and the court accords no deference to a district court's decision. It is a question of law whether Wyoming statute authorizes the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH) to determine nonchargeability against an employer's experience rating. The court's review of an agency's conclusion of law is governed by WYO. STAT. ? 16-3-114(c)(1990). If the conclusion of law is in accordance with law, it is affirmed; if it is not in accordance with law, it is to be corrected.
The law of the State of Mississippi is that, when an employee is injured--even during normal working hours--after abandoning his work duties and embarking on a purely personal frolic, the injury is not compensable.
A reviewing court's standard of review of the conclusions of law of a Workers' Compensation Court (Montana) is whether the court's interpretation of the law was correct.
In a workers' compensation matter, Minn. Stat. ? 176.135, subd. 1(a) (2000) states that an employer is to furnish any medical, psychological, chiropractic, podiatric, surgical and hospital treatment as may reasonably be required at the time of the injury and any time thereafter to cure and relieve from the effects of the injury.
W. Va. Code St. R. tit. 128, , ? 36-1.1 (1997), promulgated by the University System of West Virginia Board of Trustees, addresses the appointment, promotion, tenure and non-reappointment or dismissal of faculty.
Minn. Stat. ? 125.12, subd. 6b(e) provides: Teachers placed on unrequested leave of absence shall be reinstated to the positions from which they have been given leaves of absence or, if not available, to other available positions in the school district in fields in which they are licensed. Principals are included within the definition of teachers. Minn. Stat. ? 125.12, subd. 1.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 168.114 (4) (2000) specifies the causes for which a school board may terminate an indefinite contract of a permanent teacher, including, for a willful violation of, or a failure to obey, the school laws of the state or the published regulations of the board.
Wis. Stat. ? 121.08(1) provides: The state shall pay to the school district a sum equal to the amount by which the primary guaranteed valuation exceeds the school district equalized valuation, multiplied by the primary required levy rate and a sum equal to the amount by which the secondary guaranteed valuation exceeds the school district equalized valuation multiplied by the secondary required levy rate.
The school board of all school districts shall organize by the election of a president and a secretary from its membership whose duty it shall be to make reports and to perform all other duties required by law. A majority of the members of the school board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings of the school board showing (a) the members present and absent; (b) the date, time and place of the meeting; (c) an accurate recording of any final actions taken at such meeting; (d) a record by individual member of any votes taken at such meeting; and (e) any other information that the school board requests to be reflected in the minutes. Each member of the school board present shall either vote or abstain on every question upon which a vote is taken at such meeting. All action taken by a school board shall become official at the time it is taken. All minutes of the school board shall be signed by the president of the board, shall be attested by the secretary of the board and shall be adopted by the board at the next regular meeting, or within thirty (30) working days, whichever occurs later. Miss. Code Ann. ? 37-6-9.
School warrants are not, unless expressly so made by statute, negotiable instruments and are open to all defenses in the hands of bona fide holders available as between the original parties.
R.I. Gen. Laws ? 16-39-4 provides that, following a decision by the commissioner of elementary and secondary education or the board of regents for elementary and secondary education, judicial review may be obtained by any aggrieved party as provided in chapter 35 of title 42.
Wis. Stat. ? 117.08(3) contemplates that an order denying reorganization of a school district may be affirmed by the school boards, and that such action would become a "resolution" constituting "an order of school district reorganization." An original school board order requiring school district reorganization may be subsequently reversed by the school boards. Therefore, a resolution denying a petition for reorganization can constitute an "order of school district reorganization."
Minn. Stat. ? 2906 (1923) provides that the teachers in all public schools shall give instruction in morals, in physiology and hygiene, and in the effects of narcotics and stimulants.
The four statutory criteria in Ind. Code ? 20-8.1-6.1-2 (Supp. 1980) of travel time, transportation, crowded conditions, and curriculum offerings are ascertainable standards binding upon the Indiana Commission on General Education and court unless the Commission makes other regulations. Ind. Code ? 20-8.1-6.1-11 (Supp. 1980) does not require that further regulations be promulgated as a matter of law. Therefore, the use of "shall" in the statute mandates the Commission to promulgate rules and regulations to implement this chapter only in those areas, such as tuition charges, where the statute is silent. Where certain clearly ascertainable standards have been set forth by the legislature, further regulations by the Commission are discretionary.
Section 214 of the Pennsylvania School Code empowers remaining members of the board to fill a vacancy when the vacancy results from death, resignation, or removal from the district, and ? 215 of the Pennsylvania School Code contains no such provision.
The decision to assign a teacher with coaching responsibilities to a full-time teaching position generally is considered a transfer rather than a dismissal or suspension. The statutes afford broad discretion to the director of schools to transfer teachers within the local school system. A director of school's decision to transfer a teacher must be made in good faith, in accordance with the criterion set forth in the statute - efficient operation of the school system. A director's decision to transfer a teacher is afforded a presumption of good faith, and the party challenging the decision carries the burden to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the decision was arbitrary, capricious or improperly motivated. The determinative question is whether the transfer could be classified as for the 'efficient operation of the school system.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 165.016.6 (2000) requires that a school district must pay an additional amount in the year following the notice of violation. It provides that a school district shall compensate the building-level administrative staff and nonadministrative certificated staff an additional amount which is equal to one hundred ten percent of the amount necessary to bring the district into compliance. The statute further declares that in any year in which a penalty is paid, the district shall pay the penalty specified in this subsection in addition to the amount required under this section for the current school year.
Wis. Stat. ? 120.10 (14) provides that the annual meeting of a common or union high school district may direct and provide for the prosecution or defense of any action or proceedings in which the school district is interested.
The statute provides in effect that two or more contiguous or noncontiguous school districts may consolidate when a majority of the votes cast in each district favors consolidation. Or. Rev. Stat. ?? 330.110, 330.140.
While the principal use to which the schools are dedicated is to accommodate students during prescribed hours for certain types of activities, discipline and social behavior are not only an inevitable part of the process of schooling, they are also an important part of the educational process.
W. Va. Const. art. XI, ? 1, ch. 18 (1931) relating to West Virginia University and its board of governors, provides, in part, that the business and educational affairs of the university shall be under the control, supervision and management of the board of governors, which shall be a corporation, and as such may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and have and use a common seal. Section 1a provides that the control of the financial, business and all other affairs of the West Virginia University and of Potomac State school is hereby transferred from the State board of control to the board of governors. The board of governors shall, in respect to the control, management and property of such institutions, have the same rights and powers and shall perform the same duties as were heretofore exercised or performed by the State board of control. The title to all property of such institutions is hereby transferred to and vested in the board of governors.
While physicians may be employed by hospitals, Colo. Rev. Stat. ? 25-3-103.7(2) (2005), and by professional service corporations owned by physicians, Colo. Rev. Stat. ? 12-36-134 (2005), these legal relationships do not expose professional corporations and hospitals to vicarious liability for the negligent acts of their medical professionals. ? 12-36-134(1)(f).
Okla. Stat. tit. 63, ? 950 provides: In the event it is necessary or advisable to perform an autopsy under the provisions of this act in some place other than the laboratories of the Chief Medical Examiner, said examiner may authorize payment of a reasonable fee for the use of an appropriate place for the performing of an autopsy, which payment shall be made upon a claim and submitted to the Board of Medicolegal Investigations.
Tenn. Code Ann. ? 7-57-502(c) (1998) provides in part that a metropolitan hospital authority, in the exercise of its powers, may contract for or otherwise participate solely or with others in furtherance of the hospital's operation.
Mont. Code Ann. ? 53-21-103 applies only to proceedings brought under Mont. Code Ann. tit. 53, ch. 21, pt. 1, which is entitled "Treatment of the Seriously Mentally Ill."
The adoption of Neb. Rev. Stat. ? 44-2816 (Reissue 1998) committed Nebraska to the professional theory, under which expert evidence is indispensable to establish what information would ordinarily be provided under the prevailing circumstances by physicians in the relevant and similar localities.
Ind. Code ? 25-22.5-8-1 (1982) states that it is unlawful for any person to practice medicine or osteopathic medicine in the State of Indiana without holding a license or permit to do so, as provided in this article.
The state's interest in the preservation of life weakens and the individual's right to privacy grows as the degree of bodily invasion increases and the prognosis dims.
Nev. Admin. Code ? 639.603 requires wholesalers to provide statements of prior sales of drugs, commonly referred to as "pedigrees," which must identify with considerable specificity each sale of a prescription drug before the prescription drug is sold to another wholesaler or to a pharmacy under certain conditions.
Wis. Admin. Code ? H 24.04(1)(k) provides: The credentials committee shall review applications for appointment and reappointment to all categories of the staff. They shall delineate the privileges to be extended to the applicant and make appropriate recommendations to the governing body according to the procedure outlined in the hospital's medical staff bylaws. 1. The committee shall make recommendations for initial appointment, hospital privileges, promotions, and demotions. 2. The committee shall be advisory and investigative and make recommendations only. It is not given disciplinary or punitive powers.
S.C. Code ?? 5232 to 5250 (1932) provides for the appointment of a Board of Examiners (Board) and requires that every person before beginning to practice optometry shall pass an examination before the Board in theoretic, practical and physiological optics, theoretic and practical optometry and in the anatomy of the eye.
In every day parlance the HIV virus is also referred to as the AIDS virus. The general public fully understands the relationship between an HIV diagnosis and AIDS, and this fact is recognized by the judiciary.
The only staffing requirements placed on an applicant for a certificate of need is that the applicant must document that certain staff will be available - a director and a full-time magnetic resonance imaging technologist-radiographer. Miss. State Health Plan, FY 2004 at XI-48. The State Plan does not specify the amount of staff salaries.
The government's prohibition on ex parte contacts between a defendant health care provider and a patient's treating physician in R.I. Gen. Laws ? 5-37.3-4(b)(8)(ii) (1998) serves to further the state's goal of protecting the privacy of a patient's confidential health care information.
Nev. Rev. Stat. ? 108.590(1) states, in part, that if a person receives hospitalization on account of any injury, and claims damages from the person responsible for causing the injury, the hospital has a lien upon any sum awarded the injured person by a settlement to the extent of the amount due the hospital for the reasonable value of the hospitalization rendered before the date of settlement.
The language of RSA 415:6-aa (Supp. 2012) and RSA 420-J:7-b, VIII (Supp. 2012) is plain and unambiguous. Both statutes require health insurers and health benefit plans, respectively, to allow covered persons to purchase an up-to-90-day supply of prescription drugs. Additionally, the statutes require a "pharmacy" dispensing a 90-day supply of prescription drugs to comply with the terms and conditions set forth by the insurer or health benefit plan. RSA 415:6-aa; RSA 420-J:7-b, VIII. However, the pharmacy language only places obligations on pharmacies to follow terms and conditions as set forth by insurers and health benefit plans; the statutes do not obligate an insurer or health benefit plan to allow a retail pharmacy to dispense 90-day prescriptions in the first instance. In other words, although the statutes require health insurers and health benefit plans to provide 90-day prescription coverage, they merely permit  but do not require  insurers and benefit plans to allow such prescriptions to be filled at local retail pharmacies rather than through mail order pharmacies.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi has recognized the strict limitation set out in Miss. Code Ann. ? 41-7-201(2)(f) for appellate review in Mississippi courts as to decisions of the state health officer and the Mississippi State Department of Health.
The Virginia Sterilization Act, 1924 Va. Acts ch. 394 provides: 2. Such superintendent shall first present to the special board of directors of his hospital or colony a petition stating the facts of the case and the grounds of his opinion, verified by his affidavit to the best of his knowledge and belief, and praying that an order may be entered by said board requiring him to perform or have performed by some competent physician to be designated by him in his said petition or by said board in its order, upon the inmate of his institution named in such petition, the operation of vasectomy if upon a male and of salpingectomy if upon a female.
The purpose of the South Carolina Certificate of Need and Health Facility Licensure Act (CON Act), S.C. Code Ann. ? 44-7-110 et seq. (Supp. 2010), is to promote cost containment, prevent unnecessary duplication of health care facilities and services, guide the establishment of health facilities and services which will best serve public needs, and ensure that high quality services are provided in health facilities in South Carolina. S.C. Code Ann. ? 44-7-120 (2002). To help achieve this purpose, an applicant is required to obtain a certificate of need before undertaking a project prescribed by the CON Act. ? 44-7-120(1).
A doctor may perform abortions in his/her own private office without a certificate of need (CON) or a license to operate the facility, unless he/she performs a "substantial number" of abortions. In that case the facility becomes an "ambulatory surgical treatment center" (ASTC). ASTC subject to stricter regulation by the Tennessee Department of Health. Accepting patients in an unlicensed facility is also a class B misdemeanor. Tenn. Code Ann. ? 68- 11-213(b)(2).
Although the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission is relatively large and that of the states relatively limited, the powers of the states within their circumscribed field unquestionably exist. This field in which the powers of the states can still be freely exercised is expressly and by irresistible implication excluded from the operation of the federal statutes.
A railway company is bound to maintain its crossing permanently. And this though by a statute the obligation is in express terms only not to obstruct the safe use of the highway.
Language limiting liability on a baggage check does not operate to limit the carrier's liability, unless the passenger in fact consented to the limitation and there was a contract fairly and honestly entered into between the parties establishing the limitation of liability.
A common carrier cannot by making contracts for future transportation or by mortgaging its property or pledging its income prevent or postpone the exertion by the State of the power to regulate the carrier's rates and practices.
The language of ch. 136 of the laws of 1872 (Kansas) is, and if such railroad company shall fail to take such bond, such railroad company shall be liable to the persons herein mentioned to the full extent of all such debts so contracted by such contractor. This responsibility of the company stands in lieu of the bond, and is security for the debt, and when the debt is assigned, it carries the security. The expression, "liable to the persons herein mentioned," does not make the security purely personal, and non-assignable, but simply imposes a direct and original liability, and independent of the amount remaining due by the company to the contractor.
A collector is someone who owns one or more special interest vehicles who collects, purchases, acquires, trades, or disposes of special interest vehicles or parts thereof for the collector's own use in order to restore, preserve, and maintain a special interest vehicle for historic interest. Wis. Stat. ? 341.266(1)(a) (2001-02).
Indiana's current Certificate of Title Act, Ind. Code ? 9-17-1-1 et seq., enacted in 1991, provides generally that a person may not operate or permit to be operated upon the highways a motor vehicle under an Indiana registration number unless a certificate of title has been issued for the motor vehicle.  Ind. Code ? 9-17-2-13 (1998).
The expenditure made by the state in the construction of the canal is equivalent to a pecuniary compensation to the grantor. Being an absolute and perpetual estate in the land occupied by the canal, the estate was neither revocable nor reversionary.
Tecumseh, Neb., Ordinance No. 346, ? 4(t) requires a driver to sound horn and give an approaching car the right of way when backing out of a parking space.
There is little, if any, distinction in principle between collecting a charge less than that fixed by the tariffs and in not collecting any charge at all. It is said that although innocently done through error, the effect in both instances will be to violate the terms of the Interstate Commerce Act.
A strike is not an excuse to a consignee for failure to make cars available to a railroad under penalty of paying demurrage.
Miss. Code Ann. ? 63-3-703(b)y reads: The approach for a left turn shall be made in that proportion of the right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the roadway being entered.
It may be a violation of Wis. Stat. ? 85.40(1) (1941) to bring a car to a sudden and unexpected stop.
ORS 483.204(1) authorizes the state highway commission to designate main traveled or through highways by placing at the entrance thereto from intersecting highways signs and markers notifying drivers of vehicles to stop or yield the right of way before entering or crossing such designated highways.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 8448 permits one who is not qualified to drive to learn under a temporary instruction permit, and this section requires that such learner must be accompanied by a licensed operator, chauffeur, or registered operator who is actually occupying a seat beside the driver.
While the law does not point out any particular mode or manner in which notice of trains approaching a crossing shall be given, it does require that some suitable and adequate means, adapted to the circumstances, shall be adopted and applied.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 3140 (1909) provides for specific kinds of instrumentalities for giving warnings, to-wit, a bell and steam whistle, to be attached to a specific kind of motor vehicle, to-wit, a locomotive engine, and to be sounded at a specific distance from each road crossing.
Where a motor vehicle is owned by a Pennsylvania resident, as that term is defined in ? 102 of the Vehicle Code, that vehicle must have a Pennsylvania registration plate before it can be operated on a Pennsylvania highway.
No mere length of time of a use that obstructs a public highway, in absence of a statute so providing, can make, as against the public, such an obstruction a lawful structure.
The Secretary of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has the option to either treat a minor as an adult and assess points under the point system or to treat him as a minor and impose a suspension or other sanction authorized under Pa. Stat. Ann. tit. 75, ? 604.1(d).
The United States Supreme Court has sometimes spoken of the requirement that a vessel be "in navigation," but never to indicate that a structure's locomotion at any given moment mattered. Rather, the point is that structures may lose their character as vessels if they have been withdrawn from the water for extended periods of time. The Court does not mean that the "in navigation" requirement stands apart from 1 U.S.C.S. ? 3, such that a "vessel" for purposes of ? 3 might nevertheless not be a "vessel in navigation" for purposes of the Jones Act, 46 U.S.C.S. App. ? 688, and the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act (LHWCA), 33 U.S.C.S. ? 901 et seq.
General average has been defined to be a contribution by all the parties in a sea adventure, to make good the loss sustained by one of their number on account of sacrifices voluntarily made of part of the ship or cargo, to save the residue and the lives of those on board from an impending peril, or for extraordinary expenses necessarily incurred by one or more of the parties for the general benefit of all the interests embarked in the enterprise. The right to general average extends to the loss of the ship when the cargo is saved in whole or in part, as well as to the loss of the cargo, when the ship is saved.
"Maintenance" is the right of a seaman to food and lodging if he falls ill or becomes injured while in the service of the ship. "Cure" is the right to necessary medical services. Both extend to the point of maximum recovery.
Contracts for new construction are excluded as maritime, and in case of agreements of uncertain intendment, reasonable doubts concerning the latter should be resolved in favor of the admiralty jurisdiction.
The United States Supreme Court has established a two-prong test for determining whether an employee is a Jones Act Seaman. First, the employee must establish that she has a substantial employment-related connection to a vessel in navigation. Second, the employee must establish that her duties contributed to the function of the vessel or the accomplishment of its mission. The Jones Act remedy is reserved for sea-based maritime employees whose work regularly exposes them to the special hazards and disadvantages to which they who go down to sea in ships are subjected.
In negligence actions, a declaration need only allege, with certainty and definiteness, facts and circumstances sufficient to set forth a duty owed by the defendant to the plaintiff, a breach of that duty, and injury proximately resulting from that breach.
The total circumstances of an individual's employment must be weighed to determine whether he had sufficient relation to the navigation of vessels and the perils attendant thereon.
There are two essential prongs to the "nexus" test: (1) that the incident caused a potential hazard to maritime commerce; and (2) that the actions surrounding the incident bore a substantial relationship to traditional maritime activity.
Under the admiralty law it is the duty of the master to take security bonds from the cargo owners for general-average contributions before delivery of the cargo to owners or consignees.
Because the Jones Act incorporates the standards of the Federal Employers' Liability Act (FELA), the agency principles outlined in Sinkler apply to Jones Act claims. To give an accommodating scope to the word "agents," Sinkler held that when an employee's injury is caused in whole or in part by the fault of others performing, under contract, operational activities of his employer, such others are "agents" of the employer within the meaning of ? 1 of FELA.
In law, a port is a place for arriving and lading and unlading of ships in a manner prescribed by law, and near to which is a city or town for the accommodation of marine and the securing and vending of their merchandise.
The hirer of a boat, entrusted to its exclusive possession 1,300 miles from the owner, has a duty to see that measures apparently needed to preserve it are taken, even when the particular measures should ultimately be at the expense of the owner. The peculiarity of the situation has legal effects. The owner could not be expected to watch over and maintain its property 1,300 miles away, out of its control, and the hirer could not expect to be free of any obligation of care for the property thus entrusted to it, and permitted to let it go to destruction without interference. Extraordinary repairs that may be needed to the hull could be arranged for and provided by the owner itself upon notice from the hirer, if such is the owner's obligation. But if the hirer is charged with notice of the danger in time, it is under an obligation to notify the owner, and so enable it to take action. And if a cessation of operations with the dredge is a measure necessary to avoid an apparent danger, the hirer is under an obligation to cease. He is in a position analogous to that of the hirer of a horse that has become sick or disabled during use by the hirer. But if the horse falls sick, or becomes exhausted, the hirer is bound not to use it. And if he does pursue his journey and use it when reasonable care and attention would forbid, he would make himself responsible to the owner for that act.
The admiralty or maritime jurisdiction test for tort claims comprises two functional inquiries: first, the traditional situs analysis determining whether the tort was committed or the alleged injury occurred on navigable waters, and second, the more recently developed nexus analysis determining whether the alleged tort bears a significant relationship to traditional maritime activities.
There is the necessity only of "slight" evidence to meet the burden of proving the causation prong of the liability determination in a Jones Act, 46 U.S.C.S. app. ? 688 (1994)1994-01-01, negligence case.
Work done merely to improve a shore has been understood as not to be so related to navigation as to bring employees while engaged in the work under admiralty jurisdiction.
Proceedings in personam growing out of a collision may be enforced at common law, and therefore may be brought in a state court.
An employee is deemed a Jones Act seaman when (1) the employee's duties contribute to the function of a vessel or to the accomplishment of its mission, and (2) the employee has a connection to a vessel or to an identifiable group of such vessels that is substantial in terms of both its duration and its nature.
An act of God in the legal sense -- that which will excuse the discharge of a duty and relieve a defendant from liability for injury -- is a providential occurrence or extraordinary manifestation of the forces of nature which could not have been foreseen and the effect thereof avoided by the exercise of reasonable prudence, diligence and care or by the use of those means which the situation renders reasonable to employ. However, when a force majeure or act of God combines or concurs with the conduct of the defendant to produce an injury, the defendant may be held liable for any damages that would not have occurred, but for its own conduct or omission. Thus the determination of the application of the Act of God defense necessarily includes an assessment of any negligence on the part of the defendants.
Generally, the "saving to suitors" clause means that a suitor asserting an in personam admiralty claim may elect to sue in a "common law" state court through an ordinary civil action. In such suits, state courts are required to apply the same substantive law as would be applied had the suit been brought in admiralty in a federal court.
The Suits in Admiralty Act, vesting jurisdiction in the district courts, furnishes the exclusive remedy in admiralty against the United States and such corporations on maritime causes of action arising out of the possession and operation of merchant vessels.
The language of Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 2725 is not to transmit the message promptly and with impartiality and good faith, and to deliver the same. Its terms clearly limit the penalty to the refusal to transmit the message promptly with impartiality and good faith over the wires to the point on the line where it is addressed. Section 2725 is a penal statute and as such it is not to be regarded as including anything which is not clearly and intelligently described in its very words as well as manifestly intended by the legislature, or which is the same thing stated in another way no case shall be held to fall within ? 2725 which does not fall both within the reasonable meaning of its terms and within the spirit and scope of the enactment.
The language of Phoenix, Ariz. City Code ? 14-470(c) is clear that charges for transmissions are exempt from the tax imposed by ? 14-470 if the transmission originates in the city and terminates outside the state. Charges for monitoring services are not exempt.
Under the Pennsylvania Supplemental Act of May 1, 1876, Pa. P. L. 90, Pa. Stat. Ann. tit. 15, ? 2311, the business of a telephone or telegraph company is not limited merely to the transmission of oral or written messages or information. The act, in terms, confers upon such companies the right to transact any business in which electrical impulses conveyed by means of wire may be applied to any useful purpose.
The definition of "publication" set forth in 17 U.S.C.S. ? 101 applies to works governed by the 1976 Copyright Act which took effect January 1, 1978 but generally constitutes a codification of the definition construed under the 1909 Act. The relevant decisions construing "publication" before the effective date of the 1976 Act indicate that publication occurs when by consent of the copyright owner the original or tangible copies of a work are sold, leased, loaned, given away, or otherwise made available to the general public.
The United States Supreme Court has indicated that the limitations of 17 U.S.C.S. ? 411(a), may be more properly characterized as a type of precondition to suit, rather than jurisdictional. Section 411(a) thus imposes a type of precondition to suit that supports nonjurisdictional treatment under Supreme Court precedents.
Section 505 (17 U.S.C.S. ? 505) of the Copyright Act of 1976 authorizes an award of fees to the prevailing party in a suit under the Act. The United States Supreme Court has held that lower courts should consider such factors as frivolousness, motivation, objective reasonableness, both in the factual and in the legal components of the case, and the need in particular circumstances to advance considerations of compensation and deterrence. In exercising its discretion, a court should remain faithful to the purposes of the Copyright Act and treat prevailing plaintiffs and defendants equally. The Sixth Circuit has observed, however, that it generally does not promote the purposes of the Copyright Act to award attorney fees to a prevailing party when the plaintiff has advanced a reasonable, yet unsuccessful claim.
17 U.S.C.S. ? 106 (2005)2005-01-01 provides that copyright holders have the exclusive right to allow certain uses, and thus impose subsequent use restrictions.
In order to convict a defendant of felony copyright infringement, the government must prove that, during a 180-day period, the defendant reproduced or distributed 1 or more copies of 10 or more copyrighted works with a retail value of more than $2,500. 17 U.S.C.S. ? 506(a); 18 U.S.C.S. ? 2319(a) and (b). If these requirements are met, the defendant is subjected to a five-year maximum sentence. 18 U.S.C.S. ? 2319(b)(1). Otherwise, the maximum penalty is one-year imprisonment. 18 U.S.C.S. ? 2319(b)(3).
For the purposes of the common law rule that provides that the creator of an unique intellectual production such as an architectural plan has an exclusive property right in designs for works of ornament or utility until "publication" is permitted, delivery of sketches by a proposed homeowner to an architect with a request that they be used to prepare architectural drawings, plans, and specifications is not a "publication."
Within the context of predominantly state-law claims, a state court may include copyright defenses within its consideration of all of the matters in the interest of judicial economy and in an effort to prevent piecemeal litigation.
Given that others may freely copy a work's ideas (and other unprotectable elements), a court in a copyright infringement action starts by determining the breadth of the possible expression of those ideas. If there is a wide range of expression (for example, there are gazillions of ways to make an aliens-attack movie), then copyright protection is "broad" and a work will infringe if it is "substantially similar" to the copyrighted work. If there is only a narrow range of expression (for example, there are only so many ways to paint a red bouncy ball on blank canvas), then copyright protection is "thin" and a work must be "virtually identical" to infringe. The standard for infringementsubstantially similar or virtually identicaldetermined at the "extrinsic" stage is applied at the "intrinsic" stage. There a court asks, most often of juries, whether an ordinary reasonable observer would consider the copyrighted and challenged works substantially similar (or virtually identical). If the answer is yes, then the challenged work is infringing.
Under Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 4964, a license in writing, by instrument duly witnessed, may be given by the proprietor to any other person to the extent described in such license; and there is no restriction upon the power of the proprietor to assign or transfer in equity an exclusive right to use the copyrighted book in a particular manner or for particular purposes upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon. In such case the legal title remains in the proprietor; and a beneficial interest, to the extent which is agreed upon, vests in the other party, who has acquired an equitable right in the copyright, and who will be properly styled an 'assignee of an equitable interest.
For constitutional purposes, certain activities of a business may be intrastate and therefore subject to state control, while other activities of the same business may be interstate and therefore subject to federal regulation. And there is a wide range of business and other activities which, though subject to federal regulation, are so intimately related to local welfare that, in the absence of congressional action, they may be regulated or taxed by the states. In marking out these activities the primary test applied by the court is not the mechanical one of whether the particular activity affected by the state regulation is part of interstate commerce, but rather whether, in each case, the competing demands of the state and national interests involved can be accommodated. And the fact that particular phases of an interstate business or activity have long been regulated or taxed by states has been recognized as a strong reason why, in the continued absence of conflicting congressional action, the state regulatory and tax laws should be declared valid.
When a certificate of brand is delivered to the county clerk, in the form required by the statute, he shall record said certificate in a book to be kept for that purpose, which clearly contemplates that the certificate of brand as filed shall be recorded in full, and not the entry, in some book of what the clerk conceives to be a memorandum of its contents.
17 U.S.C.S. ? 106(3) provides that the owner of a copyright has the exclusive right to distribute copies or phonorecords of the copyrighted work to the public by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending.
Federal courts have no jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C.S. ? 1338(a) over actions that depend for their resolution on state laws governing contract enforcement or construction, or the ownership or transfer of property interests. Contract questions that depend upon common law or equitable principles belong in state court even if they involve copyrights. A dispute over the terms of a copyright license is not deemed to arise under the Copyright Act. Contract questions that depend on common law or equitable principles belong in state court.
An action is not one "arising under" the Copyright Act merely because it has an aroma of copyright. Claims of nonpayment of royalties are not claims arising under the Copyright Act.
To distinguish between permissible lifting of ideas and impermissible copying of expression, a two-part "extrinsic/intrinsic" test has been developed. At the initial "extrinsic" stage, a court examines the similarities between the copyrighted and challenged works and then determines whether the similar elements are protectable or unprotectable. For example, ideas, scenes a faire (standard features) and unoriginal components are not protectable. When the unprotectable elements are "filtered" out, what is left is an author's particular expression of an idea, which most definitely is protectable.
To establish infringement, a copyright plaintiff must prove two elements: (1) ownership of a valid copyright, and (2) copying of constituent elements of the work that are original.
The copyright law is contained in Title 17 of the United States Code. It prohibits the involuntary transfer of an individual author's ownership of a copyright.
Where a government employee's official functions include research generally, the employee may be barred a right of action for infringement even where he was not specifically required to perform the work at issue.
The rule that the title to property held jointly by husband and wife vests in the survivor applies to personal as well as to real property. It is a joint deposit with right of survivorship where the certificates are payable to husband or wife, as well as where payable to husband and wife. In either case, it is held by entireties.
When the provisions of Nev. Rev. Stat. ch. 164 are read together, the Supreme Court of Nevada concludes that Nev. Rev. Stat. ? 164.795's meaning becomes clear: it contemplates that a special trustee may, at a minimum, make a corrective adjustment between principal and income accrued in the year immediately preceding its appointment. Indeed, the determination of whether an adjustment between principal and income distributions is necessary often will require a review of data related to trust investments and returns at the close of the year. And no provision of Nev. Rev. Stat. ch. 164 requires a trustee to announce or formally elect any type of total return strategy or indicate that it will seek an adjustment at the end of the year. Rather, Nev. Rev. Stat. ? 164.795(1) allows a trustee to exercise the power to adjust whenever (1) the trustee manages trust assets as a prudent investor, (2) the terms of the trust require distribution of income to an income beneficiary, and (3) the trustee is unable to otherwise comply with Nev. Rev. Stat. ? 164.720's fairness mandate.
It is undoubtedly a general rule that a donor must part with all interest and control over the property; but there is no authority nor reason for the doctrine that a promise made by the donee to pay a sum of money or to do an act not amounting to a condition of delivery of title, can invalidate the gift.
The law does not leave a will at the mercy of the subscribing witnesses; and even though some or all of them appear and testify adversely the instrument may nevertheless be established by competent evidence aliunde.
N.M. Stat. Ann. ? 45-2-507(A)(1) (1993) allows for the revocation of a will by a subsequent will. New Mexico statutes define a will as any testamentary instrument that, among other things, revokes or revises another will, N.M. Stat. Ann. ? 45-1-201(A)(53). A testamentary instrument is one that operates only upon and by reason of the death of the maker. A document or instrument that is testamentary must also be properly executed and witnessed, as required by N.M. Stat. Ann. ? 45-2-502, to satisfy the will requirement of N.M. Stat. Ann. ? 45-2-507(A)(1).
It is the duty of an estate's administrator to state with particularity his claim for extra compensation, so that the court, as well as those interested in the estate, may be informed fully of the nature of the service rendered, and of its necessity and value to the estate, and be thereby enabled to distinguish the items which are a proper charge from those that may be unjust and improper. Proof, moreover, should be made of each special service with its peculiar value, and the whole should not be aggregated by mere estimate without being itemized. The county court is vested with large discretionary power in determining the amount and reasonableness of charges as extra compensation.
Alaska Stat. ? 13.26.295 requires conservators to take the protected person's estate plan into account when investing the estate, selecting assets of the estate for distribution under Alaska Stat. ? 13.26.285(a), (b), and in certain other circumstances. Alaska Stat. ? 13.26.285(a) gives conservators the ability to distribute income or principal from an estate in order to care for the protected person. Alaska Stat. ? 13.26.285(b) allows the conservator to make distributions to charity as the protected person would have.
Where there is no general residuary clause, and there is some residuary estate, it must be distributed under the intestate law.
It is not necessary for the signature of the attesting witness to be on the same sheet with the signature of the testator. All that is necessary is that such witness shall attest the will. Where the names of attesting witnesses are on a separate sheet from that of the testator, the will is sufficiently attested if these sheets are physically connected.
The alienation of jointly acquired property, which descends to a surviving spouse is not subject to any other limitations than those applicable to property otherwise inherited and the surviving wife is not precluded from disposing of such property by her will.
If an executor should unreasonably delay to make and return an inventory, any creditor or other person interested in the estate might, by application to the court, procure him to be summoned to return an inventory.
It is not the policy of the law to permit the defeat of the probate of a will because of the failure of the memory of an attesting witness. The right of a testator to make a will and devise his property as he pleases should not, in the execution of that right and the vesting of the property according to the desire of the testator, be conditioned upon any such fact that might so easily thwart and evade all of the intentions and purposes of the testator in regard to his property, and this regardless of his thorough compliance in fact with the statutes for the making of wills. In other words, if the policy of the law were otherwise, it would be quite possible for an heir who had been disinherited to fraudulently procure one of the subscribing witnesses to a will to testify that he had not subscribed the will as an attesting witness and thereby thwart the attempt of the testator to devise his property. On account of this danger, it is established law that while the testimony of attesting witnesses denying or impeaching the execution of the will is to be considered and may be sufficient in some cases to prevent probate, it is, nevertheless, to be viewed within caution and suspicion and is usually entitled to little credence, and a proponent, obliged to call an attesting witness as a witness, is not bound by his testimony.
Minnesota statutes comport with the common law and recognize that a party "unascertained or not in being" may be a party interested in a trust. Minn. Stat. ? 501.36 (1978).
An action to contest a will is an action at law. If the proceeding in the probate court is in the nature of an action at law, the circuit court and the appellate court may not disturb the probate judge's findings of fact unless a review of the record discloses there is no evidence to support them.
The law favors that construction of a will which will make a distribution as nearly conformed to the general rule of inheritance as the language will permit.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 230 provides that if it appears to a court that such notice was duly published, and that the estate of a deceased has been fully administered and all debts paid, the court shall make final settlement and shall find and determine who are the persons entitled to distribution and their respective interests in said estate. While ? 230 does state that the court shall make final settlement, Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 229 provides that an executor shall make final settlement.
The mere passing of a claim against the estate of a deceased person in the Orphans' Court (Maryland), or its allowance by that tribunal, in the ex parte account of an executor, does not prevent proper parties in interest from contesting it, or even establish a prima facie case in its favor so as to cast upon the contestant the onus probandi of the impropriety of its allowance.
The fact that a testator and proponent were parent and child does not in itself create a presumption of a confidential relationship. Furthermore, the mere fact the proponent was a favored child of the testator also does not give rise to that presumption. Kindly care and solicitous attention do not amount to undue influence. Benevolence cannot be interpreted as undue influence unless it is a mask behind which hides a designing and greedy mind conspiring to deceive and exploit.
A surety considers multiple factors in determining a contractor's bonding capacity, including performance on previous projects. In addition, it is clearly understood in the construction industry that a contractor's bonding capacity can be severely impacted by perceived performance problems or litigation on any contract. Thus, a performance dispute may cause a surety to reduce a contractor's bonding capacity, thereby restricting the contractor's ability to bid on other projects. The fact that a surety makes the decision to reduce the contractor's bonding capacity, rather than the breaching party itself, does not render lost profits due to that reduction speculative as a matter of law in all cases.
The "Little Miller Act", Md. Code. Ann., State Fin. &amp; Proc. ? 13-501 provides that any person having direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor of the contractor but no contractual relationship express or implied with the contractor furnishing said payment bond shall have a right of action upon the payment bond or upon giving written notice to the contractor within 90 days from the date on which such person did, or performed the last of the labor or furnished or supplied the last of the material for which such claim is made., provides that any person having direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor of the contractor but no contractual relationship express or implied with the contractor furnishing said payment bond shall have a right of action upon the payment bond or upon giving written notice to the contractor within 90 days from the date on which such person did, or performed the last of the labor or furnished or supplied the last of the material for which such claim is made.
A municipal contract may cover any length of time provided it does not cede away control or embarrass the legislative or governmental powers of the municipality or render it unable in the future to control any municipal matter over which it has jurisdiction.
With respect to the timeliness of bid protests challenging a solicitation defect, in the absence of a waiver rule, a contractor with knowledge of a solicitation defect could choose to stay silent when submitting its first proposal. If its first proposal loses to another bidder, the contractor could then come forward with the defect to restart the bidding process, perhaps with increased knowledge of its competitors. A waiver rule thus prevents contractors from taking advantage of the government and other bidders, and avoids costly after-the-fact litigation.
Based on the plain meaning of Baltimore County, Md., Code ? 10-2-504, and an examination of its legislative history, Baltimore County, Md., Code ? 10-2-504 does not allow changes to existing contracts which increase the contract price without notice to and the acquiescence of the county council.
In considering whether to impose a fitness requirement, the court considers whether the passage of the suspension period alone, without further evaluation, will leave the court uninformed or concerned with respect to the enumerated factors, thus indicating that substantial questions remain about respondent's fitness to practice law.
A lawyer must comply at all times with all applicable disciplinary rules of the Code of Professional Responsibility whether or not he is acting in his professional capacity. The provisions of Ind. R. Prof. Responsibility 1-102(A)(3), (4) are not limited to a lawyer's conduct while he is acting in his professional capacity as a lawyer. They are applicable to all conduct of the nature specified in those provisions without regard to the capacity in which a lawyer may be acting.
Ind. R. Prof. Conduct 1.7(b) provides that a lawyer shall not represent a client if the representation may be materially limited by the lawyer's responsibility to another client or to a third person, or by the lawyer's own interests, unless: (1) the lawyer reasonably believes that the representation will not be adversely affected; and (2) the client consents after consultation.
Rules of Discipline for the Mississippi State Bar, Rule 12.1 provides: The petition for reinstatement shall not be filed until three (3) years after the date the order of disbarment became final.
An oral agreement does not provide a sufficient basis for a lawyer to treat a client's funds as if they were his or her own. In the absence of a written fee agreement that expressly designates a fee as a non-refundable retainer earned upon receipt, funds paid from a client to a lawyer remain subject to trust account rules regarding funds held for another.
Ind. R. Prof. Conduct 1.16(d) provides, in part, that upon termination of representation, a lawyer shall take steps to the extent reasonably practicable to protect a client's interests, such as giving reasonable notice to the client, allowing time for employment of other counsel, surrendering papers and other property to which the client is entitled and refunding any advance payment of fee that has not been earned.
Pursuant to 1925 N.M. Laws 100, ? 9 the state supreme court may annul or modify any rule, regulation or by-law adopted by the board relative to discipline or admission to the bar.
The purposes of attorney discipline are to protect the courts, the legal profession, and the public; to guard the administration of justice; and to deter similar misconduct. In determining the appropriate discipline, we consider the nature of the misconduct, the cumulative weight of the rule violations, the harm to the public, and the harm to the legal profession. A referee's disciplinary recommendation is entitled to great weight, but the court has the final responsibility for determining appropriate sanctions.
The protection of a client's confidence is so basic a tenet of professional responsibility that it yields only in the rarest of real ethical dilemmas. Thus in such a dilemma, advice, disassociation, and even passive representation, may be resorted to in lieu of exposure.
Wis. Sup. Ct. R. 20:4:2 (1990) provides that in representing a client, a lawyer shall not communicate about the subject of the representation with a party the lawyer knows to be represented by another lawyer in the matter, unless the lawyer has the consent of the other lawyer or is authorized by law to do so.
An attorney's admission to the Indiana State Bar subjects him to the Supreme Court of Indiana's disciplinary jurisdiction. Ind. Const. art. 7, ? 4.
Rule for Admission 2.15 (Or.) provides: Unless expressly authorized by the Oregon Supreme Court, the Board of Bar Examiners shall not disclose any of its records, work product, or proceedings in carrying out these activities for the Supreme Court except the Board may release an applicant's admissions file to (1) a special investigator appointed under Rules for Admission 9.15 to 9.20 (Or.); (2) the Oregon State Bar's Disciplinary Counsel when an applicant seeks Court review of an adverse admissions recommendation; (3) Counsel appointed by the Board when an applicant initiates civil proceedings against the Board in connection with the applicant's application; or (4) admissions authorities in other jurisdictions which guarantee the confidentiality of admissions materials to the same extent as required under Oregon law.
The predecessor of Miss. Disc. R. 12 is Miss. Code Ann. ? 73-3-337, (1972), both of state in part: Any time after the expiration of three (3) years from and after the date of the final judgment of disbarment, the convicted attorney may petition the court for reinstatement.
Wis. Sup. Ct. R. 22.03(6) states that in the course of an investigation, an attorney's wilful failure to provide relevant information, to answer questions fully, or to furnish documents and the attorney's misrepresentation in a disclosure are misconduct, regardless of the merits of the matters asserted in the grievance.
In disciplinary proceedings against an attorney who testifies to defend himself, the charges may not be amended based on the attorney's testimony. Rather, the charge must be known before the proceedings begin, or they become a trap from which the attorney has no opportunity to expunge the earlier statements and start afresh. The absence of fair notice as to the precise nature of the charges deprives an attorney of due process. Thus, attorneys require notice of the disciplinary charges, but the disciplinary proceeding need not be of a quasi-criminal nature.
Good faith and honesty of motive and intention will not justify a lawyer in representing conflicting interests. Good faith is material only in those exceptional cases where an attorney is permitted to represent adverse interests after he has made a full disclosure of the facts and circumstances to both parties and obtained their free and intelligent consent to his acting for both.
In determining suitable discipline, the Iowa Supreme Court considers the nature of the alleged violations, the need for deterrence, protection of the public, maintenance of the reputation of the bar as a whole, and the respondent's fitness to continue in the practice of law. The Supreme Court also takes into account both aggravating and mitigating circumstances.
An attorney violates Wis. S. Ct. R. 20:8.4(c) by offering to the Board of Attorneys Professional Responsibility during its investigation a videotape of what is purported to be the client's execution of the case management agreement, when the client already had signed the agreement -- a fact that the attorney attempts to conceal during the taping.
Under Colo. R. Prof. Conduct 8.4(d) it is professional misconduct for an attorney to engage in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice. A violation of Rule 8.4(d) requires proof of some nexus between the conduct charged and an adverse effect upon the administration of justice.
A full disclosure requires a detailed explanation to the client of all possible areas where the interest of one client may differ from that of the other. The burden is upon the lawyer to raise all possibilities. A simple recitation of the applicable law is inadequate. An explanation of the applicable law to every possible factual situation is essential.
The question of whether the feature is functional should turn on whether the protection of the configuration would hinder competition or impinge upon the rights of others to compete effectively in the sale of goods. If that feature must be slavishly copied in order to have an equally functional product, then the feature is not entitled to protection. But if the feature enables the second-comer simply to market his product more effectively, it is entitled to protection.
Courts have traditionally allowed equitable indemnity in cases of imputed fault or where some special relationship exists between the first and second parties. According to the principles of equity, the right exists whenever the relation between the parties is such that either in law or in equity there is an obligation on one party to indemnify the other, as where one person is exposed to liability by the wrongful act of another in which he does not join.
The interpretation placed on the contract by the parties prior to the time it became a matter of controversy is entitled to great, if not controlling, influence in ascertaining the intent and understanding of the parties and courts will generally follow such practical interpretation.
A waiver is the intentional relinquishment of a known right. To rise to the level of a waiver, the conduct must be so manifestly consistent with and indicative of an intention to renounce a particular right or benefit that no other reasonable explanation of the conduct is possible.
He who has a debt by simple contract, and takes a bond for the same debt or any part of it, the simple contract is determined.
The party for whose benefit accommodation paper has been made acquires no rights against the accommodation party, who may set up the want of consideration as a defense to an action by the accommodated party, since as between them there is no consideration, a fact which is always a defense to a suit on negotiable paper between the immediate parties.
For a contract to be valid, there must be an offer and acceptance along with bargained for and exchanged valuable consideration. Valuable consideration in this context may consist of an exchange of mutual promises, which promises impose a legal liability upon each promisor.
In the absence of anything indicating a contrary intent, it is a general rule of construction that where the same word or phrase is used on more than one occasion in the same instrument, and in one instance its meaning is definite and clear and in another instance it is susceptible of two meanings, there is a presumption that the same meaning was intended throughout such instrument.
In the mercantile world, parties negotiate upon the faith of rights that result from the face of the paper itself and the genuineness of the signatures. If they receive it in due course of trade before it falls due and are thus bona fide holders for value, and the face of the paper shows nothing which could give them notice or put them upon inquiry, they are exempt from payments, discounts, sets-off, or equities existing between the antecedent parties.
As against the maker of a note or the acceptor of a bill of exchange payable on a day certain at a specified place, the holder of the note, in order to maintain an action, is not bound to make a demand at the time and place specified. But if the maker was ready to pay at the time and place, he may plead it as he would plead a tender in bar of damages and costs, by bringing the money into court.
The party injured by the breach of a contract is bound to use reasonable exertion and diligence to protect himself from loss but where the party whose duty it is to perform has equal opportunity for performance and equal knowledge of consequences of nonperformance he cannot, while the contract is subsisting, be heard to say that plaintiff is to have performed for him.
A contract is defined as a promise or set of promises for breach of which the law gives a remedy, or the performance of which the law in some way recognizes as a duty. To be enforceable, a contract must express with definiteness and certainty the nature and extent of the parties' obligations. If the contract omits a term or is too vague with respect to essential terms, the contract may be invalid. An essential element in the formation of a contract is mutual assent by the parties to the terms thereof.
A consideration, though small, is adequate to support a contract, and that inadequacy of consideration, in the absence of fraud, does not constitute any defense. This rests upon the policy of the law to let the parties weigh the benefits pro and con and to leave them free to make whatever contract between themselves that they please.
On discovering the fraud by which he was induced to enter into a contract, the party defrauded may elect whether he will treat the contract as binding or refuse to be bound by it, but until he so elects it continues valid. An agreement procured by fraud is voidable and not void. As far as the guilty party is concerned, however, the contract is void.
A bailment exists when one party entrusts his personal property to another for a specific purpose, after which the property is to be returned. While in possession of the bailed property, the bailee must exercise the degree of care commensurate with the benefit he derives from the arrangement. Thus, absent contractual language to the contrary, when the bailment is solely for the bailee's benefit, he owes a high degree of care. If the bailment is solely for the bailor's benefit, the bailee owes only slight care. When, as in most cases of bailment for hire, the arrangement inures to the benefit of both parties, the bailee owes ordinary care.
Minn. Gen. Stat. ? 7017 (1913) provides that every assignment of a debt, unless the same be in writing and filed with the clerk of the town or municipality in which the assignor resides, shall be presumed to be fraudulent and void as against his creditors unless those claiming thereunder make it appear that it was made in good faith and for a valuable consideration.
The subsequent conduct of the parties to a contract may also amount to a construction by them of the original contract, and show that they understand and regard that time is, or is not, of its essence.
Each component of fraud must be alleged and found to exist as a matter of fact, and that the absence of any one of them is fatal to the party asserting fraud.
The law does not favor the destruction of contracts because of indefiniteness, and if the terms can be reasonably ascertained in a manner prescribed in the writing, the contract will be enforced. But a contract is void if it is so vague, indefinite, or uncertain that the contract's meaning and the parties' intent is left to speculation. Therefore, a purported contract is fatally defective if it contains substantial and necessary terms specifically left open for future negotiation.
At the common law, an obligation under seal cannot be discharged before breach by an agreement in parol, or by any instrument not executed with the same solemnity as the original obligation. However, after breach, for the damages occasioned thereby, any agreement or transaction between the parties that would operate as an accord and satisfaction in ordinary cases, may be pleaded in discharge. Whenever the breach complained of has been superinduced by the action or agreement of the plaintiff, and the matter is properly availed of in defence, he will not be allowed to recover on the technical breach thus produced.
If A sell goods to B, on credit, without any promise on his part to give a note for the amount of the purchase, if A should, subsequently, demand a note, he could not enforce such demand by any proceeding either in a court of law, or of equity.
Del. Code Ann. tit. 8, ? 259 provides that when a merger becomes effective all assets of the merged corporation, including any causes of action that might exist on its behalf, pass by operation of law to the surviving company.
Decisions of trial courts conflict as to the degree to which a target board has a role in responding to a controller's tender offer. The Siliconix line of cases holds that the target board has no role. The Pure Resources line of cases holds that the target board has an advisory role.
Certificate language comparable to that found in Del. Code Ann. tit. 8 ? 242(b)(2) is but one consideration in concluding that the merger has separate and independent significance or function.
As between general depositors, the effect of a pledge to a depositor of a part of the assets of the bank is to withdraw, for the benefit of such depositor, a part of the funds to which all depositors look for protection. But if the separated assets become the only source of repayment to the depositor, and if the amount of his deposit is equivalent to the value of the assets which are separated from the general assets of the bank, and if, furthermore, the amount of the deposit passes into and becomes a part of the general funds of the bank, no injury in fact results to the interests of other depositors, or creditors, of the bank.
National banks may take personal property as security for loans, or as security for bills of exchange purchased by them, but national banks have no power whatever to deal in merchandise of any kind, or in stocks or bonds. U.S. Rev. Stat. ? 5136.
When a court reviews the decision of a board of zoning appeals (BZA) on an issue of law, no deference is afforded the BZA, and reversal is appropriate if an error of law is demonstrated.
A witness tree is not an established corner, but merely an object by means of which, in connection with the field notes, if correct, the corner may be found.
To hold that property has been dedicated to a public use is not a trivial thing, and such dedication is never presumed without evidence of unequivocal intention.
An inadequate description in a deed may be made sufficient if it refers for identification to some other instrument or document with such certainty that the land can be located therefrom, but such other instrument must be so referred to that third parties could be reasonably required to discover it and learn its contents and the description in such other instrument must be definite and certain.
The notice requirements of Del. Code Ann. tit. 9, ? 4911(b) obligate the Planning Commission to provide notice, through publication in a newspaper of general circulation, of any proposed amendments, supplements, changes or modifications with respect to the number, shape, boundary or area of any district or districts, or any regulation of, or within, such district or districts, or any other provision of any zoning regulation or regulations.
To be valid under the Minnesota statute of uses, a deed must either be such that the title may be vested by force of the statute in beneficiaries entitled to take, and disclosed in the deed, or in trustees, for such purposes as the statute permits.
The recording of an instrument is effective only when the recording is made by the proper officer and in the mode prescribed by law.
The object of ? 1 of the Chattel Mortgage Act, Colo. Gen. Laws 122, is to prevent fraud and deception by precluding a mortgagor of personal property from holding himself out to the world as an unqualified owner. To this end, he must either transfer the possession to the mortgagee, or give notice to the world of the lien by acknowledging and recording the mortgage, as required by the statute.
The intent of the dedicator is the foundation and life of all dedications and the intent must be clearly manifested. Where the dedication is statutory in character the plat and writing generally furnish the means by which to ascertain the intent, and these, like all other writings, must be construed by the terms contained in them. In the case of a common-law dedication, the intent is to be determined from what the dedicator said in making the dedication and by his acts and conduct; and the rule of construction is to give effect to the intent manifested.
The ancient rule that property should not be sold at judicial sales for grossly inadequate prices is still effective. While the legal rights of infants do not exceed the rights of adults in such cases, their interests are always the peculiar care of courts of equity. Neither the property of infants nor adults should be sold at judicial sales for grossly inadequate prices, if it can be fairly avoided.
A landowner must have notice, actual or imputable, of an adverse claim to his property in order for it to ripen into title against him, and the mere possession of land is not sufficient to satisfy the requirement of open and notorious possession. Sporadic and temporary activity on the property is not sufficient to give notice of an adverse claim, nor is an owner put upon such notice by occasional pasturing of cows, or by occasional cutting of timber. The acquisition of title by adverse possession, as that phrase is used in real property law, contemplates a special kind of possession. It is the intendment of the law that title to real property belonging to another may never be acquired by mere possession, however long continued, which is surreptitious or secret, or which is not such as will give unmistakable notice of the nature of the occupant's claim. Such occupancy must not only be adverse, hostile, and exclusive as to others, but it must also be peaceful, uninterrupted, and continuous, under claim of ownership. In addition, the occupancy, under claim of ownership, must be actual, open, notorious, and visible.
The terms of Okla. Stat. art. 11, ? 44-110(D) (1981) provide: the appeal shall be heard and tried de novo in the district court. All issues in any proceedings under this section shall have preference over all other civil actions and proceedings.
A surrender by operation of law takes place when, by consent of both parties, another person becomes a tenant of the premises, and the landlord collects rent from him.
A commission that is contingent upon a sale of real property at auction is payable only after title is transferred, unless the parties specify a contrary result.
When property is duly executed and recorded under a declaration of condominium, it is subject to regulation under Wisconsin's Condominium Ownership Act. Wis. Stat. ? 703.03. "Declaration" means the instrument by which a property becomes subject to this chapter, and that declaration as amended from time to time.
In proceedings for foreclosure by advertisement, the owner of the record and the legal title existing at the time of the foreclosure is the proper person to conduct and effectuate the same.
In a partial takings case, the correct measure of damages is the difference between the fair market value of the entire piece of property immediately before the taking and the fair market value of the remainder of the property after the taking.
Where the title deeds are actually deposited by the debtor with his creditor upon an advance of money, and perhaps even for an antecedent debt, as a security, the equitable mortgage will arise without more; the deposit standing in the place of an actual mortgage, and dispensing with the necessity of the execution of such mortgage.
The Act of February 15, 1841, 1840-41 Mo. Laws 108 provided that if commissioners report that land, or any part, is not susceptible of division in kind, the court shall order it sold, and made further provision as to the duties of the sheriff in making such partition sales, and gave him power to take notes or bonds for the purchase-money, and to pay over the same according to the order of the court, and to make deeds to the purchasers, and made the sheriff liable on his bond for the proceeds of the sale, and gave him power to close up the matter even after his term had expired, unless ordered by the court to turn the business over to his successor, and then provided that, the sheriff shall file, in the clerk's office, an accurate statement of all moneys received, and all costs and expenses paid or incurred in the transaction of the business, and the court shall allow such as are legal and reasonable.
Since the passage of the Pennsylvania Act of April 10, 1849, the right of the first builder to a party wall is considered an interest in the realty which passes to the grantee of the land.
When the validity of an act or ordinance is attacked and a decision rendered sustaining it, it is fair to assume that all constitutional questions involved have been decided, whether or not they were raised in the pleadings or mentioned in the opinion.
The ex post facto prohibition found in both the Tennessee Constitution and the United States Constitution is aimed at laws that retroactively alter the definition of crimes or increase the punishment for criminal acts. An ex post facto law changes the punishment, and inflicts a greater punishment than the law annexed to the crime when committed. The critical question in an ex post facto claim is whether the law changes the punishment to the defendant's disadvantage, or inflicts a greater punishment than the law allowed when the offense occurred.
While the State has latitude to introduce a tape into evidence through a witness other than the victim, the introduction of a Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, ? 3507 statement cannot be so timed as to place any strategic burden on the non-offering party. Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, ? 3507(a) explicitly provides that the defense have the opportunity to cross-examine the witness about the out-of-court statement. Therefore, the statement must be offered into evidence no later than at the conclusion of that witness' direct examination.
11 U.S.C.S. ? 1325(b)(1) provides that if a bankruptcy trustee or an unsecured creditor objects to confirmation of a Chapter 13 plan, a court cannot confirm the plan unless it provides for (1) full payment of all unsecured creditors or (2) payment to unsecured creditors of all of the debtor's projected disposable income to be received in the applicable commitment period. Section 1325(b)(4) provides that if a debtor's income exceeds the applicable median income, the "applicable commitment period" is "not less than five years," unless a plan provides for full payment of all unsecured claims over a shorter period. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has held that these provisions impose a temporal requirement. If a debtor's income is above median, the debtor must propose a five-year plan, whether the debtor's disposable income is positive, zero, or negative. This implies that an above-median debtor must propose a five-year plan, even if the debtor's plan payments for some or all of that period are zero.
Plan modifications brought under 11 U.S.C.S. ? 1329 are allowed only in limited circumstances. Section 1329 states that a plan can be modified at anytime after confirmation, but before the completion of plan payments, to do one of the following: I. Increase or reduce the amount of payments on claims of a particular class; II. Extend or reduce the time for such payments; III. Alter the amount of the distribution to a creditor whose claim is provided for by the plan to the extent necessary to take account of any payment of such claim other than under the plan, or IV. Reduce amounts to be paid under the plan by the actual amount expended to purchase health insurance for the debtor. As ? 1329(a) indicates, the changes permitted by the Bankruptcy Code concern modifications to the amount and timing of payments, not to the creation of a new obligation or a deletion of an existing obligation on the estate. The Code does not permit modification of the Plan for the purpose of reclassifying a claim or taking relief that would reclassify a claim.
By the insolvent laws a deed or assignment made to a creditor or security, with the expectation of becoming an insolvent debtor, and with the intent to give an under preference to such creditor or security, is declared to be void, and the property attempted to be conveyed or assigned, to vest in the trustee of the insolvent debtor.
Or. Rev. Stat. ? 95.240 provides: (1) A transfer made or obligation incurred by a debtor is fraudulent as to a creditor whose claim arose before the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred if the debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation without receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation and the debtor was insolvent at that time or the debtor becomes insolvent as a result of the transfer or obligation. (2) A transfer made by a debtor is fraudulent as to a creditor whose claim arose before the transfer was made if the transfer was made to an insider for other than a present, reasonably equivalent value, the debtor was insolvent at that time and the insider had reasonable cause to believe that the debtor was insolvent.
Based upon the lengthy and specific discussions of group II membership contained in the legislative history, the first and last sentences of RSA 100-A:3, IX (Supp. 2010) may be reconciled as follows. The first sentence addresses the board's authority to determine the classification of a newly created position held by one person. This is evidenced by the use of the singular term "person" within the sentence. Any classification as group II of positions held by more than one person, and any reclassification of positions from group I to group II, may be accomplished only by legislative action. Thus, RSA 100-A:3, IX, prohibits the New Hampshire Retirement System board from reclassifying group I positions to group II, without legislative approval.
Whether a state law is preempted by a federal statute is a question of Congressional intent. State laws that relate to any employee benefit plan are preempted by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). In the context of ERISA, the words "relate to" must be interpreted broadly to effectuate Congress' purpose of establishing pension plan regulation as exclusively a federal concern. Laws that have been ruled preempted are those that provide an alternative cause of action to employees to collect benefits protected by ERISA, refer specifically to ERISA plans and apply solely to them, or interfere with the calculation of benefits owed to an employee. Those that have not been preempted are laws of general application--often traditional exercises of state power or regulatory authority--whose effect on ERISA plans is incidental.
For purposes of 29 U.S.C.S. ? 1055(c)(2)(A), the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit declines to adopt a substantial compliance doctrine as a matter of federal common law to permit a notary to "witness" a consent to beneficiary designation that was not signed in the notary's physical presence. Instead, the Seventh Circuit relies on the strong presumption of validity that a notary public's certificate of acknowledgement carries.
Md. Ann. Code 73B, ? 31(a) allows a member of a qualifying governmental retirement or pension system who has earned service credit in that system to transfer that membership to any other qualifying governmental system, upon accepting office or employment which makes it possible or mandatory for the member to participate in the other system and if acceptance of the office or employment would make it impossible for the member to continue as a contributing member of the retirement system from which the member transfers. Thus, for a person to transfer membership under ? 31(a), he must (1) be a member of a qualifying system; (2) either be able or be required to participate in the other qualifying system when he accepts his new office or employment; and (3) no longer be able to continue as a contributing member of the first retirement system when he accepts his new office or employment.
There is nothing in the Pennsylvania Pension Law which would suggest that the legislature intended to differentiate between the types of "injury" sustained, so long as the injury arose out of performance of duty and the resulting disability became a continuing one.
An appeal of a motion for approval of a qualified domestic relations order is not the appropriate forum to enforce criminal statutes regarding fraud.
ERISA ? 514(a) expressly preempts all state laws that relate to any employee benefit plan; however, laws regulating insurance, banking, or securities are exempt. 29 U.S.C.S. ? 1144(a). A law relates to a covered employee benefit plan if it has a reference to or connection with it. Nev. Rev. Stat. ch. 695G does not have a reference to a connection with an ERISA plan.
The adjective "accidental" qualifies and describes the injuries contemplated by Md. Ann. Code art. 101, ? 80(6) as having the quality or condition of happening or coming by chance or without design, taking place unexpectedly or unintentionally. So, if a servant, while at work, suffers or is made ill from natural causes, the state or condition is not accidental, since it is a natural result or consequence which is normal, and to be expected. If, however, there is a subsisting condition of illness or incapacity or physical disability which is caused, increased or accelerated by some act or event coming by chance or happening fortuitously, then the requisite quality or condition of the injury will exist so as to make it accidental. Nor is it necessary for the accidental quality or condition to be given or created by wound or external violence, as is illustrated by many instances.
In determining whether a teacher's conduct indicates an unfitness to teach, the board of education may properly consider such matters as the age and maturity of the teacher's students, the likelihood that his conduct may adversely affect students and other teachers, the degree of such adversity, the proximity or remoteness in time of the conduct, the extenuating or aggravating circumstances that surround the conduct, the likelihood that the conduct may be repeated, the motives underlying it, and the extent to which discipline may have a chilling effect upon either the rights of the teacher who is involved or other teachers, This list of factors is not exclusively definitive. Human conduct is infinitely various, and it will be folly to attempt to isolate any limited set of criteria as determinative.
The test of whether or not one has been afforded procedural due process is one of fundamental fairness in the light of the total circumstances. No particular method of procedure is required for due process, but what is required is: (1) adequate notice of the charges; (2) reasonable opportunity to prepare for and meet them; (3) an orderly hearing adapted to the nature of the case; and (4) a fair and impartial decision.
A petition and notice for the dissolution of a school district will be construed as embracing certain territory, though not specifically mentioned, when fairly susceptible of such construction, and where so treated by the school board, county superintendent, and voters.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 334.100.2(25) (2000) does not outline a clear procedure to follow when the physician fails the examination. The statute merely states that the State Board of Registration for the Healing Arts (Board) may suspend or revoke a physician's license, among other disciplinary measures, when the board finds any person unqualified because of any of the grounds set forth in this subdivision, ? 334.100.2(25)(f) and Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 334.100.4 (2000). Although the statute does not require a contested hearing before the Board suspends or revokes a physician's license, due process is satisfied, so long as before a license is revoked, the physician has a meaningful hearing with notice and an effective opportunity to defend. The primary purpose of the statutes authorizing the Board to discipline a physician's license is to safeguard the public health and welfare.
The determination of whether state law claims interrelated to copyright claims are preempted by 17 U.S.C.S. ? 301(a) requires consideration of two factors: (1) whether the particular work to which the state law claim is being applied falls within the type of works protected by the Copyright Act--styled the subject matter requirement; and (2) whether the state law claim seeks to vindicate legal or equitable rights that are equivalent to one of the bundle of exclusive rights already protected by copyright law--styled the general scope requirement.
The owner of a copyright in a literary work enjoys certain exclusive rights, such as the right to reproduce copies of a work, prepare derivative works, distribute copies work, and display the work publicly. 17 U.S.C.S. ? 106.
When a court decides that a benefit applicant is the beneficiary of a support trust, the trust assets are considered resources of the applicant. However, if the trust involved is a discretionary trust, its assets are not assets of its beneficiary.
It is the common rule that, under a residuary gift to several persons nominatim, or in common, and not as a class, a lapsed portion of the residuary devise or legacy does not, in the absence of statute, inure to the benefit of the other residuary devisees or legatees, unless the intention of the testator to that effect clearly appears; instead, such lapsed portion of the residuary estate is removed from the operation of the residuary clause and becomes intestate estate, passing to the heirs or distributees.
Secondary meaning is acquired when the name and the business become synonymous in the public mind; and submerges the primary meaning of the name in favor of its meaning as a word identifying that business. To be entitled to protection, the distinctive quality of the mark must be proved by demonstrating that the mark has come to signify plaintiff's product in the minds of a significant portion of consumers and evokes favorable images of plaintiff or its product.
If the effect may be to mislead, a fraudulent intent is inferred, and proof of actual deception is not necessary to the granting of relief.
The definition and elements of secondary meaning may be briefly stated as follows: Words and symbols used in connection with one's goods, services, or business, or physical attributes of goods, not capable of being appropriated as a technical trade mark, are deemed to have acquired a secondary meaning when they have become associated in the minds of purchasers or customers with the source or origin of goods or services rather than with the goods or services themselves.
The question of the right of relief against the infringement of a trade name in a given case depends upon the circumstances surrounding the adoption and advertisement of the name complained of, as much as upon its similarity to that of the complainant. The question in every case is whether the defendant is in fact attempting to sell his goods as the goods of some one else. When this fact is found, a basis for relief is established. The fact is to be found, as other facts, from the evidence, including therein all the relevant circumstances and conditions. Identity of name may not, in itself, be sufficient. A lack of identity in name will not always suffice to prevent the extending of relief to one whose trade is being stolen. What degree of resemblance between the names of devices is sufficient to warrant the interference of a court in cases of this kind is not capable of exact definition. It is, and must be, from the very nature of the case, mainly a question of fact, to be determined by the circumstances appearing in each particular case.
The right to use a personal name in business, even one's own, is subject to general rules in regard to unfair competition. Personal names must be used truthfully and in good faith, or their use will be enjoined. A man must use his own name honestly and not as a means of pirating upon the good will and reputation of a rival by passing off his goods or business as the goods or business of his rival who gave the name its reputation and value. No one will be permitted to use even his own name with the fraudulent intention of appropriating the good will of a business established and built up by another person of the same name. While the use of one's own name cannot be absolutely enjoined, nevertheless the manner of using it may be regulated by injunction. No person will be allowed to use even his own name in such a manner as to inflict an unnecessary injury upon another, and such as would not naturally result from the mere identity or similarity of names, but where the only confusion created is that which results from the similarity of names, the courts will not interfere.
The distribution of quotations of prices on dealings upon a board of trade which were collected by the plaintiff and confidentially communicated to numerous persons under a contract not to make them public, is entitled to the protection of the law just as trade secrets are. This right to privacy is not lost to a plaintiff who has collected such valuable information at his expense even though it be communicated to many persons in confidence under such a contract, and strangers can be restrained from using such information, which they acquire only by inducing a breach of trust by those entitled to the quotations, but under obligation to maintain such secrecy.
There is no such thing as property in a trademark except as a right appurtenant to an established business or trade in connection with which the mark is employed. The law of trade-marks is but a part of the broader law of unfair competition; the right to a particular mark grows out of its use, not its mere adoption; its function is simply to designate the goods as the product of a particular trader and to protect his good will against the sale of another's product as his; and it is not the subject of property except in connection with an existing business.
N.D. Cent. Code ch. 47-25 creates a cause of action to allow a person or an organization with a registered trade name to bring a civil suit to prohibit another person from using the registered name, N.D. Cent. Code ? 47-25-01(2).
The sale or transfer of the property and good will of an established and going business includes trade names and trademarks used in that business.
The trademark law's purpose is to protect the public from confusion regarding the sources of goods or services and protect business from diversion of trade through misrepresentation or appropriation of another's goodwill.
The office of a trade-mark is to point out distinctively the origin or ownership of the article to which it is affixed, or, in other words, to give notice who was the producer.
No rights accrue to one who merely selects a trademark without actual use of it in the advertising or sale of goods. The court requires proof of use because the trademark infringement cause of action serves to protect a company's goodwill.
State statutes providing for the registration of trade-marks or trade-names are held in some instances to have been enacted for the purpose of conferring state-wide right to the exclusive use of such particular name or device as comes within its terms, and under such statutes the registrant has been held protected in a locality within the State to which he has not yet expanded his trade by actual commercial transactions.
Where the imitation relates only to matters as to which a defendant has, prima facie, a right equal to plaintiff, there must have been a public acquiescence in plaintiff's appropriation of these things for his product, a public sanction of the taking, sufficient to have created that secondary meaning whereby they have become, to the public, indicia of origin as to those means of identification, which are descriptive, or which, for any reason, are known and open to all, there is no basis, in principle or in authority, for the creating of a title or quasi exclusive right in plaintiff, except the theory that there has been this public sanction of plaintiff's appropriation, by acquiescence which has continued long enough and under circumstances suitable to raise a presumption that the public concedes the right and to make it inequitable thereafter to dispute it.
A trademark, to create a proprietary right, must be, not a word or phrase which has become the common property of all mankind in their use of language to identify the thing intended, but must be a name or symbol arbitrarily chosen by the proprietor to distinguish his particular product or commodity from those of all other producers or dealers. By these means only can the commodity be exclusively associated, in the minds of the public, with the proprietor of the trade-mark.
A plaintiff's trade name is entitled to protection against a subsequent user of the name if the designation complained of is so similar to the plaintiff's trade name that there is reasonable likelihood of confusion of source, such that prospective purchasers or clients are likely to regard the name as indicating the source identified by the name.
A trade-name is a word or phrase by which a business or enterprise, or specific articles of merchandise from a specific source, are known to the public, and when applied to merchandise is generic or descriptive, and hence not susceptible of appropriation as a trade-mark.
Similarity, not identity, is the usual recourse when one party seeks to benefit himself by the good name of another. What similarity is sufficient to effect the object has to be determined in each case by its own circumstances. The court may say, generally, that a similarity which would be likely to deceive or mislead an ordinary unsuspecting customer is obnoxious to the law.
Ordinarily a corporation is not concerned with the consideration paid for a transfer of shares of its stock. And the assignee has the right to have the stock transferred on the corporate books irrespective of the inadequacy of the price he paid therefor or the fact that the stock was a gift, although the inadequacy of the consideration may be considered as a circumstance to support a contention that no actual sale occurred. Nor, as a rule, can the corporation inquire into or pass upon the legality of the transaction by which its shares are transferred from one person to another, or justify a refusal to register the transfer on the ground that the consideration for the transfer was illegal. As a general rule, the motive in transferring or purchasing shares is immaterial, and cannot be relied upon by the corporation as ground for refusing to recognize the transfer and register the same on its books.
If a defensive measure in a takeover situation is neither coercive nor preclusive, the Unocal proportionality test requires the focus of enhanced judicial scrutiny to shift to the range of reasonableness. The reasonableness of a board's response is evaluated in the context of the specific threat identifiedthe specific nature of the threat sets the parameters for the range of permissible defensive tactics at any given time.
When a break-up of a corporate entity becomes "inevitable", the duty owed by the board of directors of that company changes. No longer does the board have the duty to preserve the corporate entity; instead, it must maximize shareholder value.
When determining the proper remedy for a failure to provide minority shareholders, in a short form merger, with facts material to the shareholder's decision whether or not to elect the exclusive remedy of an appraisal, the optimal alternative is the remedy that best effectuates the policies underlying the short form merger statute (Del. Code Ann. tit. 8, ? 253), the appraisal statute (Del. Code Ann. tit. 8, ? 262) and the Glassman decision, taking into account considerations of practicality of implementation and fairness to the litigants. A reasoned application of that standard permits the remedial alternatives to be ranked in an objective and transparent way.
It is a well-settled rule of corporate law that where one company sells or transfers all of its assets to another, the second entity does not become liable for the debts and liabilities, including torts, of the transferor.  Four generally recognized exceptions qualify this principle of successor nonliability. The purchaser may be liable where: (1) it assumes liability; (2) the transaction amounts to a consolidation or merger; (3) the transaction is fraudulent and intended to provide an escape from liability; or (4) the purchasing corporation is a mere continuation of the selling company.
A merger of two corporations cannot be considered as a sale of their property by the constituent companies, and the issuance of the new capital stock is merely the issuance of new evidence of ownership to the shareholders.
According to Md. Ann. Code of 1957 art. 23, ?? 71(3), 72(1), a transferee, successor or survivor corporation acquires the property, rights, privileges and franchises of the transferor. The statute nowhere provides nor does it or the cases give any indication that it is the law or policy of the state that the transferee or survivor corporation gives up any rights it previously had.
A corporation cannot, to the prejudice of its creditors, give away its assets to another corporation, nor can one corporation defeat the creditors of another by the purchase of its assets even for value, unless such purchase is bona fide; but in either case a purchasing corporation is only liable for the debts of the selling corporation to the extent of the value of the assets actually received.
In general, where one company sells or otherwise transfers all its assets to another company, the latter is not liable for the debts and liabilities of the transferor.
The Model Business Corporations Act, adopted in both Minnesota and Wisconsin, provides that the surviving corporation in a merger is responsible for all liabilities of each constituent corporation. Wis. Stat. ? 180.67(5) (1984). However, the statute also recognizes the separate corporate existences involved in a merger. The constituent corporations become a single entity when the merger becomes effective. Wis. Stat. ? 180.67(1). At that time, the separate corporate existences of each constituent corporation except the surviving corporation ceases. Wis. Stat. ? 180.67(2).
Where a corporate board issues a consent solicitation statement in contemplation of stockholder action, the board is obligated to disclose fully and fairly all material information within the board's control.
Under Delaware law, there is no obligation on the part of a board to disclose information that simply does not exist.
The provisions of Ala. Code tit. 10, ? 21(72) (1940), as amended, read: Rights of creditors and all liens upon the property of any corporations consolidating or merging pursuant to the authority of ? 21(65) or ? 21(67) of this title shall be preserved unimpaired; and all debts, liabilities and duties of each of said consolidating or merging corporations shall thenceforth attach to the corporation resulting from or surviving such consolidation or merger and may be enforced against it to the same extent as if said debts, liabilities, and duties had been incurred or contracted by it.
The judicial review standard for interested cash-out merger transactions by a controlling stockholder is entire fairness. The entire fairness form of review entails a unitary, non-bifurcated assessment of whether there was both fair dealing and fair price. In making that assessment, the court must consider all relevant components, first singly and then together as a whole.
Where there is evidence that reorganizational gains are part of the existing business plan of the corporation (are thus actually a prospective source of value to the concern as constituted before the merger) they may logically and consistently with the definition of fair value in the statute be quantified and counted in the determination of fair value of the dissenting shares.
A broker is a peculiar kind of an agent, and brokerage is a peculiar kind of agency. It is the business of a broker to negotiate contracts between others in matters of trade and commerce. He usually deals with the contracting parties and not with the things which may be the subject of the contract. He has neither interest in nor possession of the property which it is his business to buy or sell for others, and ordinarily he has no implied power to buy or sell in his own name. It is in these respects that a broker differs from a factor and from an ordinary agent.
When a disclosure ventures into certain subjects, it must do so in a manner that is materially complete and unbiased by the omission of material facts.
The right to a trademark or trade name is determined, not by registration, but by priority of adoption and use. A merchant who employs his trademark in connection with a particular class of goods acquires priority of right to use it in connection with that class of goods. Priority of right is, however, limited to use upon that particular class of goods. Another person may apply the same mark to goods of a different class.
Under the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, Tenn. Code Ann. ?? 47-10-101 to 47-10-123 (Supp. 2011): (a) A record or signature may not be denied legal effect or enforceability solely because it is in electronic form. (b) A contract may not be denied legal effect or enforceability solely because an electronic record was used in its formation. (c) If a law requires a record to be in writing, an electronic record satisfies the law. (d) If a law requires a signature, an electronic signature satisfies the law. Tenn. Code Ann. ? 47-10-107(a)-(d). "Electronic signature" includes an electronic sound, symbol, or process attached to or logically associated with a record and executed or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the record. Tenn. Code Ann. ? 47-10-102(8)
Under the plain language of 18 Pa.C.S. ? 7512(a), one essential element of the crime is that the person must use the communication facility to bring about a felony.
Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, ? 941(b) states that a court may award such other relief as it may deem appropriate on finding a violation of the computer misuse statute. Section 941(c) states in part that the aggrieved person shall recover actual damages and damages for unjust enrichment not taken into account in computing damages for actual loss and treble damages where there has been a showing of wilful and malicious conduct.
In determining whether an employee has a reasonable expectation of privacy in work emails, the second factor of the Asia Global Crossing test is, does the company monitor the use of the employee's computer or e-mail? This factor has been refined to focus on the extent to which the employer adheres to or enforces its policies and the employee's knowledge of or reliance on deviations from the policy. Although some decisions have held that if an employer reserves the right to monitor work email, then whether it actually does so is irrelevant, the employer's actual conduct with respect to monitoring remains an appropriate factor to consider, particularly if the employer has made specific representations or taken specific actions inconsistent with the monitoring policy and the employee can show detrimental reliance. If, however, the employer has clearly and explicitly reserved the right to monitor work email, then the absence of past monitoring or a practice of intermittent or as-needed monitoring comports with the policy and does not undermine it. In that setting, evidence of actual monitoring would make an expectation of privacy even less reasonable.
Under a minimum contacts analysis for Internet activity, proper inquiry must not focus on the mere quantity of contacts, but rather upon the quality and nature of those contacts as they relate to the claims asserted. The Supreme Court of Utah does not intend to permit corporations to hide behind the excuse of ignorance in not knowing where they or their agents send email advertisements. However, before asserting jurisdiction arising out of those emails, a plaintiff must demonstrate a substantial connection to Utah created by the one email contact. Specifically, the plaintiff must establish that the corporation purposefully availed itself of the benefits of conducting business in Utah, knew its email may injure persons in Utah, or the nature and quality of the sent email supports the exercise of personal jurisdiction in Utah. One way, but not necessarily the only way, a plaintiff may establish that the nature and quality of the activity supports jurisdiction is to demonstrate that the defendant's conduct created an active or interactive relationship with Utah. However, the state supreme court does not limit jurisdiction under the general "nature and quality" to the active/passive test.
The Controlling the Assault of Non-solicited Pornography and Marketing Act (CAN-SPAM), 15 U.S.C.S. ? 7701, addresses the problems associated with the rapid growth and abuse of unsolicited commercial email and accordingly recognizes the substantial government interest in regulating commercial email on a nationwide basis. CAN-SPAM prohibits commercial email from misleading recipients as to the source or content and protects recipients' rights to decline reception of commercial emails. Ultimately, CAN-SPAM permits states to press criminal charges and recipients to file civil suits when the sender violates the CAN-SPAM provisions. 15 U.S.C.S. ?? 7701, 7706.
Okla. Stat. tit. 21, ? 1958 (2001) prohibits communicating with, storing data in, or retrieving data from a computer system or computer network for the purpose of using such access to violate any of the provisions of the Oklahoma Statutes.
In determining whether an employee has a reasonable expectation of privacy in work emails, the first factor of the Asia Global Crossing test is, does the corporation maintain a policy banning personal or other objectionable use? This factor has been refined to focus on the nature and specificity of the employer's policies regarding email use and monitoring. It has been held to weigh in favor of production when the employer has a clear policy banning or restricting personal use, where the employer informs employees that they have no right of personal privacy in work email communications, or where the employer advises employees that the employer monitors or reserves the right to monitor work email communications. An outright ban on personal use would likely end the privilege inquiry at the start. But a complete ban on personal use is not required. This factor has been held to weigh against production if the employer does not have a clear policy or practice regarding personal use and monitoring.
Wis. Stat. ? 943.70(2)(a)4 (2003-04) prohibits taking possession of data without authorization, but neither ? 943.70(2)(a)6 nor any other subdivision prohibits disclosure without authorization of data that is obtained with authorization.
Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, ? 1108(1) (2001) is focused on a "visual depiction" that is created, regardless of the means by which the creation of the image is facilitated (e.g. by threat, force or by voluntary compliance).
A firewall is a set of interrelated programs, located at network gateway server that protects the resources of a private network from users of other networks. Basically, a firewall, working closely with a router program, examines each packet of information sent through the internet to determine whether to forward it to its destination.
Whether an individual's computer misuse was wilful and malicious directly affects the amount of damages to which a plaintiff is entitled under Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, ? 935; if both are shown, a plaintiff may recover treble damages. The misuse statute does not define wilful and malicious, but those words, in the analogous misappropriation of trade secrets context, have been defined, respectively, to mean an awareness, either actual or constructive, of one's conduct and a realization of its probable consequences, and ill-will, hatred or intent to cause injury.
A computer search is to be limited by the content called for in a warrant itself, and the government may look in all files where such content might be found.
In the Tenth Circuit, a computer search may be as extensive as reasonably required to locate the items described in the warrant.
Congress enacted the Federal Information Security Management Act, 44 U.S.C. ?? 3541-3549, which established a comprehensive framework for the management and oversight of information security in the federal government.
In order to commit a violation of Nev. Rev. Stat. ? 201.560(4)(a), a defendant's intended victim must be "less than 16 years of age" and that victim must have actual parents or guardians whose express consent was absent or avoided.
While new commerce on the Internet has exposed courts to many new situations, it has not fundamentally changed the principles of contract. It is standard contract doctrine that when a benefit is offered subject to stated conditions, and the offeree makes a decision to take the benefit with knowledge of the terms of the offer, the taking constitutes an acceptance of the terms, which accordingly become binding on the offeree.
Md. Code Ann., Crim. Law ? 7-302 (2002) provides, inter alia, that a person may not intentionally and willfully exceed that person's authorized access to a computer with the intent to alter, damage, or destroy all or any part of data or a computer program stored, maintained, or produced by a computer.
Failure to read an enforceable online agreement, as with any binding contract, will not excuse compliance with its terms. A customer on notice of contract terms available on the internet is bound by those terms.
Generally, an Internet message board is an electronic forum through which anyone with Internet access can post messages about a given topic.
42 U.S.C.S ? 1983 provides: every person who, under color of any statute of any state or territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen to the deprivation of any rights secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured for redress.
Nothing in the language of 42 U.S.C.S. ? 1983 or its legislative history limits the statute solely to intentional deprivations of constitutional rights. Simply because a wrong was negligently as opposed to intentionally committed does not foreclose the possibility that such action could be brought under ? 1983. Section 1983 affords a "civil remedy " for deprivations of federally protected rights caused by persons acting under color of state law without any express requirement of a particular state of mind. Accordingly, in any ? 1983 action the initial inquiry must focus on whether the two essential elements to a ? 1983 action are present: (1) whether the conduct complained of was committed by a person acting under color of state law; and (2) whether this conduct deprive a person of rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Wis. Stat. ?? ?301.03(2) and 301.04 (2003-04) plainly give the Wisconsin Department of Corrections authority to supervise prisoners and develop education and prevention programs for them.
Courts are not required to automatically accept a lawyer's customary rates, because courts are required to supervise the conduct of the bar and do justice to the losing as well as the winning side.
Minn. Stat. ? 13.43, subd. 5a (2006) provides that certain personal information of employees of a state correctional facility shall not be disclosed to inmates.
42 U.S.C.S. ? 1983 causes of action exist independent of any other legal or administrative relief that may be available as a matter of federal or state law.
The appellate court follows a two-step analysis to evaluate a qualified-immunity claim. It determines first whether the facts alleged are adequate to show a constitutional violation and second whether the right allegedly violated was clearly established in the factual context of the case.
A municipality may be liable only if the deprivation is caused by acts that are, properly speaking, acts of the municipality itself. This means that to be the basis for municipal liability under 42 U.S.C.S. ? 1983, tortuous conduct generally must be pursuant to a municipality's official policy made either by the municipality itself or by someone responsible for establishing policy. However, it should be noted that municipal liability attaches only where the decision-maker possesses final authority to establish municipal authority with respect to the action covered. The fact that a particular official--even a policymaking official--has discretion in the exercise of particular functions does not, without more, give rise to municipal liability based on an exercise of that discretion. The official must also be responsible for establishing final government policy respecting such activity before the municipality can be held liable.
The purpose of the Uniform Disciplinary Procedures is to provide for the fair and impartial determination and resolution of all disciplinary charges placed against inmates. The procedures are not intended to create any additional due process guarantees for inmates beyond those which are constitutionally required. Deviations from the procedures, however, warrant dismissal of the disciplinary offense when the prisoner demonstrates some prejudice as a result and the error would have affected the disposition of the case.
To state a 42 U.S.C.S. ? 1983 claim, plaintiffs must allege two elements: (i) that they have been deprived of a right secured by the Constitution and laws of the United States; and (ii) that the plaintiffs' deprivation resulted from defendants' actions under color of law.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 491.230.2 (2000) permits an inmate who is a party to a civil proceeding to attend a trial when the trial court determines that the inmate would be substantially and irreparably prejudiced by his failure to attend a trial on the merits in the civil proceeding.
The good cause requirement in the Missouri Incarceration Reimbursement Act (MIRA) is a condition precedent to filing a MIRA petition. Where the condition is not met, the attorney general lacks authority to seek reimbursement under the MIRA. Offenders can challenge the attorney general's finding of good cause and the trial court may review the sufficiency of the evidence to determine whether this requirement is satisfied. By raising a factual issue as to the existence of sufficient assets, an offender becomes entitled to an evidentiary hearing on the good cause determination.
Although not jurisdictional, a right-to-sue letter is a prerequisite to the filing of a Missouri Human Rights Act (MHRA) claim in state court. The purpose of requiring the issuance of the letter, prior to being allowed to file a MHRA claim in state court, is to afford the Missouri Commission on Human Rights (MCHR) an opportunity to determine the validity of the complaint by investigating the complaint, to determine whether there is probable cause to believe that discrimination has occurred, and to hold a hearing. However, pursuant to Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 213.111 (2000), the MCHR may elect not to pursue a complaint and terminate its proceedings by issuing a right-to-sue letter. This can be done sua sponte at any time within the statute of limitations period, without completing the investigation. The right-to-sue letter to terminate administrative proceedings conserves the commission's resources, because termination by a finding of no probable cause requires an investigation and is subject to judicial review.
To establish a claim for relief under 42 U.S.C.S. ? 1983, a petition must allege conduct by a defendant acting under color of state law who subjects a plaintiff to a deprivation of rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the United States Constitution.
No action under Bivens v. Six Unknown Agents of Federal Bureau of Narcotics may lie against federal agencies. Also, no Bivens action may lie against federal officials for strictly enforcing rules against trespass or conditions on grazing permits.
In the context of 42 U.S.C.S. ? 1983, the acts of an individual with policymaking authority can be attributed to the corporation that employs him.
To establish a 42 U.S.C.S. ? 1983 claim, a plaintiff must show (1) he was deprived of a federal constitutional right; (2) the allegedly unconstitutional conduct implemented an unconstitutional county policy or was taken pursuant to an unconstitutional county custom; and (3) the alleged constitutional violation resulted from the policy or custom.
The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals has identified six factors in determining the question of whether a particular entity is an arm of the state. These are (1) whether the state statutes and case law characterize the agency as an arm of the state; (2) the source of the funds for the agency; (3) the degree of local autonomy the entity enjoys; (4) whether the entity is concerned primarily with local, as opposed to statewide, problems; (5) whether the entity has the authority to sue and be sued in its own name; (6) whether the entity has the right to hold and use property.
On certiorari review, a reviewing court reviews de novo a disciplinary decision of the state corrections department (DOC). A reviewing court's review is limited to the following: (1) whether the DOC kept within its jurisdiction; (2) whether the DOC acted according to law; (3) whether the DOC's actions were arbitrary, oppressive, or unreasonable and represented its will and not its judgment; and (4) whether the evidence was such that the DOC might reasonably have made its decision.
The expansive language of the current New Mexico Human Rights Act (NMHRA) extends protection to "services" and "goods" as well as "facilities" and "accommodations," making it clear that the NMHRA reaches commercial activity beyond the 19th-century paradigm of an inn, restaurant, or public carrier. It should be emphasized that the Legislature explicitly amended the wording of the statute to remove the narrow and specifically enumerated traditional places of public accommodation. The Legislature replaced the narrowly identified places of public accommodation with the broad definition of any establishment that provides or offers its services, facilities, accommodations or goods to the public. N.M. Stat. Ann. ? 28-1-2(H) (2007). This broadly worded definition includes only one exception.
When employers procure group insurance policies to cover their employees, they are acting for themselves and as agents for their employees.  Accordingly, they have a duty to act in good faith and with due diligence in obtaining insurance for their employees. However, an employer's duty to inform its employees of their rights and benefits under a group insurance policy is independent from its obligation to procure the policy. The source of this duty may be statutory or contractual or may even be imposed by the common law.
A by-law of a mutual benefit society preventing a recovery upon the presumption of death after seven-years' absence is invalid on the ground that it infringes upon the common-law rule or statute raising a presumption of death after seven-years' absence without being heard from, and it is thus beyond the power of such associations to enact. Such by-laws are invalid upon the ground that they are unreasonable.
Under the subrogation provision of Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 379.203 (1975), the company that pays an insured is entitled to recover the pro rata part of the loss from every other company which has a policy covering the loss. The pro rata in this instance simply means the proportion of the total policy coverage represented by the policy limit of each company.
The insurer is subrogated only to such rights as the insured possessed, and the right of the insurer against the wrongdoer may be defeated by the act of the insured, prior to the loss, or even after the loss, in releasing the wrongdoer from any liability or giving him the benefit of any insurance, or by a recovery of the amount of the loss by the insured, unless, in the case of a release after loss, the wrongdoer settles with the insured with full knowledge of the insurer's right of subrogation.
The purpose of title insurance is to insure that title to the property is vested in the named insured, subject to the exceptions and exclusions stated in the policy. Generally, a provider of title insurance is required to search a property's chain of title in order to discover whether there exists any cloud upon the interest transferred.
An insurance company is not absolved from liability on a policy because the beneficiary murders the insured. No statute affects liability.
Any exclusionary language in an insurance policy must be strictly construed. The court scrutinizes more carefully any policy language that has the effect of excluding an insured from coverage. any exclusionary language must be presented clearly and unambiguously by the policy language. An insurer wishing to avoid liability on a policy purporting to give general or comprehensive coverage must make exclusionary clauses conspicuous, plain, and clear, placing them in such a fashion as to make obvious their relationship to other policy terms, and must bring such provisions to the attention of the insured.
An insurance company may waive the provisions of its policy as to the time of filing proofs, and this may be shown by parol, as is true where the breach of other conditions is asserted. It is not necessary to show an express waiver; this may be inferred from the circumstances. The mere statement of opinion, however, by an agent, that no such action is required, is not enough.
Once it has been established that an insured has unreasonably provided delayed notice to an insurer, an insurer may only deny benefits if it can prove by a preponderance of the evidence that it was prejudiced by the delay.
A "products-completed operations hazard" provision applies only to property within that hazard after the work is completed. Such a provision apply only to the contractor's work and not to subcontractors.
Mont. Code Ann. ? 33-18-201(6) provides that no insurer may neglect to attempt in good faith to effectuate prompt, fair, and equitable settlements of claims in which liability has become reasonably clear.
In determining whether to infer intent to injure, the facts of particular importance are those tending to show the likelihood of the harm; the greater the likelihood of the harm occurring, the more reasonable it is to infer intent.
Acceptance of an offer to make a contract can be accomplished by acts as well as words; no formal acceptance is required.
Knowledge of a general agent of an insurance company of facts material to the risk is the knowledge of the company, and if acting within the scope of his authority, his knowledge relating to the risk is binding on the company, though not communicated to it.
The rule for the construction of a life insurance policy or benefit certificate is that, having indemnity for its object, it will be liberally construed to that end.
Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 375.005 (1994), reads: Proof of mailing notice of cancellation to the named insured at the address shown in the policy, shall be sufficient proof of notice.
In order for an insurance company to invoke the noncooperation clause in its contract and avoid meeting its obligation on that ground it must show that it used reasonable diligence in obtaining the cooperation.
R.I. Gen. Laws ? 31-32-24(b)(2) (1968) provides that motor vehicle liability policies must have minimum coverage of $ 10,000 for injuries or death sustained by any one person and $ 20,000 for any one accident resulting in injuries or death to more than one person.
Whenever a policyholder substantially prevails in a property damage suit against its insurer, the insurer is liable for: (1) the insured's reasonable attorneys' fees in vindicating its claim; (2) the insured's damages for net economic loss caused by the delay in settlement, and damages for aggravation and inconvenience.
Pursuant to 75 Pa. Cons. Stat. ? 1705(d), an insured who opts for limited tort coverage is precluded from recovering noneconomic loss unless the insured is able to show that a serious injury was suffered. The ultimate decision of whether a plaintiff sustained a "serious injury" should be made by a jury in all but the clearest of cases.
The regulations governing implementation of the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C.S. ?? 300aa-1 to 300aa-34, provide that the parties have 30 days upon issuance of the special master's decision to file a motion for review. 42 U.S.C.S. ? 300aa-12(e)(1). The proceedings on a petition conclude with the special master's final act of issuing a decision on the petition, at which time the clock measuring the time for filing a motion to review the special master's decision begins to run.
The requirement to file an Equal Access to Justice Act application within 30 days is clearly jurisdictional, but the other requirements of 28 U.S.C.S. ? 2412(d) are not.
Under Mont. Code Ann. ? 53-21-129(2) (2005), the determination of whether a person appears to be seriously mentally ill and an emergency situation exists is left to the professional person, whose request for emergency detainment is sufficient for detainment until the next business day.
In the context of abuse and neglect of patients, a person acts "knowingly" when a reasonable person should be aware of the result caused by his or her conduct. Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 198.070.13 (Supp. 2010).
Proof of a plausible or possible causal link between a vaccine and an injury is not the statutory standard in a vaccine injury case. The correct standard for causation is proof of legal probability.
In the context of R.I. Gen. Laws ? 40.1-5-8 (1956), to the extent practicable, a person must be cared for in a facility that imposes the least restraint upon his or her liberty, consistent with affording the care and treatment necessary and appropriate to his or her condition. Importantly, the District Court must consider fully the alternatives to inpatient care.
Transferred property that would cause ineligibility is presumed to have been transferred for the purpose of establishing eligibility, unless the claimant can provide convincing evidence that the transfer was made for some other purpose. If fair and valuable consideration was received without regard to the type or value of the transferred property, the claimant is eligible on this point.
Under 42 U.S.C.S. ? 300aa-11(c)(1)(C)(i), in conjunction with the table set forth in 42 U.S.C.S. ? 300aa-14(a), a residual seizure disorder first manifesting itself within three days of DPT vaccination is presumed to have been caused by the vaccine. See Vaccine Injury Table, 42 U.S.C.S. ? 300aa-14(a), line I.D.
1925 Minn. Laws ch. 378, ? 2, p. 487, 1 Mason Minn. St. 1927, ? 3161-2, provides the manner in which the proceedings for the determination of settlement of poor persons shall be instituted.
In cases brought under the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, 42 U.S.C.S. ? 300aa-10 et seq., it has been noted that the absence of any particular symptom does not rule out an autism diagnosis.
Under the Mental Health Law, R.I. Gen. Laws ? 40.1-5.3-1 et seq., it is incumbent upon the Director of the Rhode Island Department of Mental Health, Retardation and Hospitals to maintain an appropriate facility for the confinement of persons committed to its custody and to provide for the proper care, treatment, and restraint of all such persons.  R.I. Gen. Laws ? 40.1-5.3-1(a).
In the context of Housing and Urban Development regulations, fraud is defined in the regulations as an intentional deception; it cannot be committed accidentally. If fraud is the basis for a tenant's termination, the file must contain documents showing that: (1) the tenant was made aware of program requirements and prohibitions; and (2) the tenant violated the law by intentionally misstating or withholding some material information. Fraudulent intent can also be demonstrated by proving that the tenant omitted material facts which were known to the tenant (e.g., employment of self or other household members).
When a subject is committed to custody by a mental health board for mental health treatment at a state hospital, the cost is borne by the patient and his or her relatives. Neb. Rev. Stat. ? 83-364 (Cum. Supp. 2004). When the full cost is not paid by the patient or his or her relatives within 30 days of the receipt of such care, the county of the patient's residence pays a portion of the unpaid cost, in an amount specified by statute. See Neb. Rev. Stat. ? 83-376 (Cum. Supp. 2004). With respect to the Lincoln, Nebraska, Regional Center, the county pays the first $ 15 per day of the unpaid cost and the balance of the unpaid cost is borne by the State.
In cases brought under the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, 42 U.S.C.S. ? 300aa-10 et seq., the special master is looking for a medical explanation of a logical sequence of cause and effect, and medical probability rather than certainty. Medical probability means biologic credibility rather than specification of an exact biologic mechanism. To require identification and proof of specific biological mechanisms would be inconsistent with the purpose and nature of the vaccine compensation program. The Vaccine Act does not contemplate full blown tort litigation in the Court of Federal Claims. The Vaccine Act established a federal compensation program under which awards are to be made to vaccine-injured persons quickly, easily, and with certainty and generosity. The Court of Federal Claims is therefore not to be seen as a vehicle for ascertaining precisely how and why various vaccines sometimes destroy the health and lives of certain children while safely immunizing most others.
Generally accepted accounting principles are not used to determine how to calculate the capital return factor, upon which Medicaid reimbursement rates are based, but are used for the preparation of financial reports.
Code (Ed. 1891) p. 124 (West Virginia) expressly makes the words "insane person" the generic term, including every one who is: (1) An "idiot," a person destitute of ordinary intellectual powers from any cause, and dating from any time; but, in common use, a person without understanding from birth. (2) "Lunatic," a person of any form of unsoundness of mind other than idiocy; mental derangement, with intermittent, strictly periodically intermittent, lucid intervals; (3) "Non compos," which embraces "idiot" and "lunatic;" (4) "Deranged," which embraces all except the natural born idiot. These are all frequently used interchangeably, one for the other, but the distinctions are not wholly unimportant; for by ? 19, c. 58, Code, pp. 579, 584 (West Virginia), passim, an "idiot" is not to be received in either hospital.
In 2009, the Minnesota Legislature changed the method used by Department of Human Services (DHS) to calculate the amount of time a qualified individual is entitled to receive personal care assistance (PCA). 2009 Minnesota Laws, ch. 79, art. 8, ?? 85-86, at 935 (renumbering and repealing relevant statutes); 20-21, at 856-57; 28, at 875-78; 31, at 879-900 (enacting relevant current statutes). The new method requires calculation of a home care rating and identifies three criteria to determine the home care rating: (1) the individual's dependent activities of daily living (ADLs); (2) the individual's complex health-related needs; and (3) the individual's Level I behaviors (behaviors). Minn. Stat. ? 256B.0652, subd. 6(b) (2010). An individual may be allotted PCA time in addition to the base allotment resulting from the calculated home care rating. ? 256B.0652, subd. 6(c) (2010).
A person must be unemployable in order to be eligible for general assistance. Or. Admin. R. 461-05-305. An applicant or recipient is unemployable when a physical or mental condition, diagnosed by a licensed medical professional, prevents the applicant or recipient from engaging in any type of gainful employment for a period of 60 days or more from the date of the request for general assistance. Or. Admin. R. 461-05311(1).
A circuit court must hold some form of hearing on the record--either a full due process hearing or a summary hearing--to continue a protective placement. The circuit court must also make findings based on the factors enumerated in Wis. Stat. ? 55.06(2) (1999-2000) in support of the need for the continuation, as required by Wis. Stat. ? 55.06(1) (1999-2000).
Minn. Stat. ? 253B.08, subd. 7 (2008) states that the court shall admit all relevant evidence at the hearing and make its determination upon the entire record. Rule 15 of the Commitment and Treatment Act Rules states that the district court may admit all relevant, reliable evidence, including but not limited to the respondent's medical records, without requiring foundation witnesses.
A portion of ? 2 of the Act of 1935, 73 PS ? 8, states: Unfair Competition defined; defense. Willfully and knowingly advertising offering for sale, or selling any commodity at less than the price stipulated in any contract entered into pursuant to the provisions of section one of this act, whether the person so advertising, offering for sale, or selling is, or is not, a party to such contract, is unfair competition and is actionable at the suit of such vendor, buyer or purchaser of such commodity.
In the absence of protection by patent, no person can monopolize or appropriate to the exclusion of others elements of mechanical construction which are essential to the successful practical operation of a manufacture, or which primarily serve to promote its efficiency for the purpose to which it is devoted. Unfair competition is not established by proof of similarity in form, dimensions, or general appearance alone. Where such similarity consists in constructions common to or characteristic of the articles in question, and especially where it appears to result from an effort to comply with the physical requirements essential to commercial success, and not to be designed to misrepresent the origin of such articles, the doctrine of unfair competition cannot be successfully invoked to abridge the freedom of trade competition. The enforcement of such claim would permit unfair appropriation, and deny the exercise of the right of fair competition.
Or. Rev. Stat. ?? 646.010 to 646.180 are known and designated as the Oregon Antiprice Discrimination Law; and the inhibitions against discrimination in those sections embrace any scheme of special concessions or rebates, any collateral contracts or agreements or any device of any nature whereby discrimination is, in substance or fact, effected in violation of the spirit and intent of Or. Rev. Stat. ?? 646.010 to 646.180.
The cardinal purpose of the North Carolina Unfair and Deceptive Trade Practices Act (UDTPA), N.C. Gen. Stat. ??75-1.1 et seq. (2001), it is to protect "the consuming public" from those acts done in violation of its general proscriptions. With respect to the UDTPA's "in or affecting commerce" language, it has been observed that while the statutory definition of commerce crosses expansive parameters, it is not intended to apply to all wrongs in a business setting. In this vein, North Carolina has excluded from the UDTPA's scope those claims involving, among other things, securities transactions, most employment-related matters, professional services, N.C. Gen. Stat. ? 75-1.1(b), lending or "capital-raising" transactions, and internal corporate governance issues.
Predatory pricing requires: (1) pricing below an appropriate measure of cost; and (2) a likelihood of subsequent recoupment of the investment by means of post-predation, supra-competitive prices and profits. In essence, this means that once the predator has succeeded in eliminating competition, it recovers its earlier losses by raising prices. Whether endeavoring to prove consummated predation, attempted predation, or conspiracy to engage in predation, an indispensable element of the proof is recoupment. A predation strategy involving below-cost prices requires recoupment from monopoly or oligopoly prices that are sufficiently high and of sufficient duration so as to justify the earlier below-cost investment.
Or. Rev. Stat. ? 646A.402(3) does not require a consumer's direct written notification of an alleged defect to include any specific contents, such as a particular description of the vehicle's defects. The written notification under subsection (3) may consist of as simple a message as a request for an informal dispute settlement procedure that might not include any allegations of a vehicle's defects.
The fundamental purpose of the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act (MMPA) is the protection of consumers, and, to promote that purpose, the Act prohibits false, fraudulent or deceptive merchandising practices. Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 407.020 (2000). The legislature did not define deceptive practices, but granted the attorney general authority to promulgate all rules necessary to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of the MMPA, which includes the authority to promulgate rules setting out the scope and meaning of the act. Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 407.145 (2000). One of those rules is set out in Mo. Code Regs. Ann. tit. 15, ? 60-8.060(1), titled "Unsolicited Merchandise and Negative Option Plans," which provides in part that it is an unfair practice for any seller in connection with the advertisement or sale of merchandise to bill, charge or attempt to collect payment from consumers, for any merchandise which the consumer has not ordered or solicited.
Generic words, whose primary meaning is merely descriptive of the business to which they are applied or which are such as are in common use for that purpose, cannot be exclusively appropriated as a trade name. As a matter of law, no one is entitled to the exclusive use of descriptive adjectives of the language. These terms may be used by all the world in an honestly descriptive and nondescriptive manner.
The fact that a product is unique, in the sense of without like or equal, does not in and of itself, confer economic power.
If the necessary effect of a combination is to stifle or to directly or necessarily restrict free competition, it is under the ban of the law, whatever may have been the intention of the parties. But if it promotes and but remotely and incidentally restricts competition, while its main and chief effects are to foster the trade and increase the business of those who make and operate it, then it is not a contract, combination, or conspiracy in restraint of trade within the true interpretation of this act, and it is not subject to its denunciation.
The purpose of the Ind. Stat. Ann. ?? 3212b-3212f (1901) is to prevent express companies and other common carriers doing business in the state from unfairly and unjustly discriminating against other persons or corporations engaged in the same business, by extending to some carriers advantages and facilities that are denied to others.
At least in the absence of a legislative decision to vest exclusive jurisdiction in an agency, the filed rate doctrine does not bar a court from considering a request to enforce the clear terms of an agency-approved tariff. Judicial enforcement of the clear terms of a tariff cannot be said to infringe on discretionary authority vested in the agency or lead to discriminatory rate-making. The judiciary is simply asked to enforce the terms of a tariff as written, just as it would in an ordinary contract action.
The Consumer Fraud Act, Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ?? 2511-2526, protects consumers and legitimate business enterprises from unfair or deceptive merchandising practices. Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ? 2512. The wrongs that it is intended to remedy, which easily distinguish it from the wrongs addressed by the Deceptive Trade Practices Act, Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ? 2531 et seq., are enumerated in ? 2513(a).
The Wisconsin Supreme Court has recognized that Wis. Stat. ? 218.0171(2)(cm) (2007-08), places obligations to the manufacturer on both the consumer and the manufacturer that must be satisfied to receive a refund. The manufacturer, as holder of the title, must offer to transfer title in order to receive its refund. The statute is unambiguous in this provision. In the absence of an offer, the manufacturer has no obligation to refund the current value of the lease to the manufacturer.
The Consumer Products Safety Act imposes on all manufacturers of consumer products the obligation to notify the Consumer Products Safety Commission if they discover that a product which they make contains a defect that may create a potential risk of injury to the public.
The Unfair Trade Practices Act, S.C. Code Ann. ?? 39-5-10 to -560 (1976 &amp; Supp. 2005), declares unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce unlawful. S.C. Code Ann. ? 39-5-20(a) (1976). The terms "trade" and "commerce" include the advertising, offering for sale, sale or distribution of any services and any property, tangible or intangible, real, personal or mixed, and any other article, commodity, or thing of value wherever situate, and include any trade or commerce directly or indirectly affecting the people of the state. S.C. Code Ann. ? 39-5-10(b) (1976). An unfair trade practice is defined as a practice which is offensive to public policy or which is immoral, unethical, or oppressive.
To be liable under the Regulation of Manufacturers, Distributors, and Dealers Act, S.C. Code Ann. ?? 56-15-10 to -130 (1991), the dealer must participate in the wrongdoing.
The true test of whether an agreement is in restraint of trade is whether the contract or combination, in its apparent purpose or natural consequence, places a restriction upon competition, or tends to create a monopoly, or is inimical to trade or commerce, and it is not necessary that a pure monopoly is effected, or that the restraint is a complete one.
To state a cause of action under the Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act (FDUTPA), a consumer must allege sufficient facts to show that the consumer has been actually aggrieved by the unfair or deceptive act committed by the seller in the course of trade or commerce. A plaintiff in a FDUTPA action may recover only actual damages incurred as a consequence of a violation of the statute.
Property is a legally protected interest under the Colorado Consumer Protection Act (CCPA), Colo. Rev. Stat. ?? 6-1-101 et seq., and a plaintiff may recover under Colo. Rev. Stat. ? 6-1-113, for injury to property and property value provided that the plaintiff satisfies each element of the standard for a private CCPA cause of action.
Me. R. Civ. P. 4A and 4B provide that a defendant may tender cash or bond at least equal to the amount of any attachment as a substituted security. Rules 4A(d)(2), 4B(d)(2). Similarly, Rules 4A(h) and 4B(j) authorize a court to order cash or bond to be held by the court as security for the judgment. Although Rules 4A and 4B have several provisions that allow substitution of liquid cash or bonds for illiquid attachments, Rule 4A(d)(2), (d)(3), (h), Rules 4A and 4B do not provide for substitution of illiquid attachments for attachments on trustee process of liquid assets. Construed as a whole, the language of Rules 4B(j) and 4B(d)(1) provides that the "specific property" that may be substituted for an account that has been attached on trustee process, must, in the absence of the agreement of the parties, be limited to "goods or credits" or "cash or bond."
A plaintiff cannot overcome a defendant's motion for summary judgment by relying on factual allegations in a proposed amended complaint where the trial court has denied the plaintiff's motion to amend.
The long-established rule in the federal courts permits the United States to recover interest on money due to the government even in the absence of any statutory authorization for an award of pre-judgment interest. Indeed, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has affirmed the United States Court of International Trade's authority to award pre-judgment interest in other similar cases based on considerations of equity and fairness.
On review, the court does not search the record for evidence which would support findings not made by the trier of fact, but rather searches for evidence to support the findings that were made.
A trial court, even if congested, must give deference to the plaintiff's choice of forum in ruling on a petition to transfer venue.
If a case is transferred from one district court to another, the transferee court should treat prior rulings of the transferor court in much the same way as one district judge treats the rulings of a colleague.
A party opposing a motion for summary judgment, in order to make an evidentiary showing sufficient to advance the party to trial, must show that it has a plausible ground for maintaining the cause of action.
In considering cross-motions for summary judgment, a court must evaluate each motion on its own merits and resolve any reasonable inferences against the party whose motion is being considered. Both motions must be denied if genuine disputes exist over material facts.
A trial court has inherently broad discretion to hold an individual in contempt when the contemnor has acted contumaciously, in bad faith, and out of disrespect for the judicial process. An appellate court may reverse or modify a contempt order only if there was an abuse of discretion by the trial court.
Or. R. Civ. P. 7 D(2)(c), describing office service, indicates that a follow-up mailing must be made by a plaintiff as soon as reasonably possible after delivery of the papers to a defendant's office.
The Court of Appeals of Indiana, Fourth District, is cognizant of authority that holds lack of notice of certain proceedings occurring in a pending action is insufficient grounds for granting equitable relief under Ind. R. Trial P. 60(B). But the court believes this rule is typically, and more appropriately, reserved for those cases where a party seeks sanctuary within Ind. R. Trial P. 60(B) because he claims he failed to receive notice of a ruling within sufficient time to avail himself of a motion to correct error under Ind. R. Trial P. 59. The court does not find such a rule wholly applicable where a defendant fails to receive notice of rulings which directly affect his ability to defend his cause of action.
A proceeding by scire facias to revive a judgment being an action must be carried on as provided by the Code of Civil Procedure. A complaint must be filed, summons must issue and be served, and the various steps leading to a judgment must be complied with.
Where all the plaintiffs or defendants to a suit do not wish to prosecute an appeal or a writ of error, or will not unite in doing so, any one of them may take an appeal or sue out a writ in the names of all, and if the others refuse to come in and join with him in the assignment of errors, there must be a judgment of severance as to them, after which he may proceed in his name alone.
It is incumbent on the party seeking attorneys fees to enable a trial court to make and an appellate court to review such an award.
An appellate court reviews rulings on motions for judgments notwithstanding the verdict and new trials for legal error. In doing so the appellate court views the evidence in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party and take into consideration all reasonable inferences that could be fairly made by the jury. When reasonable minds would accept the evidence as adequate to reach the same findings, evidence is substantial. Where reasonable minds could differ on an issue, directed verdict is improper and the case must go to the jury. On appeal, the appellate court's role is to determine whether the trial court correctly determined there was sufficient evidence to submit the issue to the jury. In reviewing a denial of a motion for a new trial based on an insufficiency of evidence claim, the appellate court also examines the district court's decision for the correction of errors at law.
Section 5 of chapter 138 of Acts of 1872-3 (West Virginia), failed to state after such order of reference in a case at law, what effect the report of the commissioner was to have, when the same was made, or what proceedings were then to be had in the case. This defect in the statutory law was probably the reason the law itself was repealed on March 14, 1881. See Acts of 1881, ch. 34, ? 2, p. 282. This however was deemed an improper mode of correcting the evil, and at the very next session of the Legislature this law was again re-enacted, but it was added to and amended by the following words: Which account when thus stated shall be deemed prima facie correct, and may be given in evidence to the court or jury trying the case.
Although the scope of appellate review is limited by Rule 52(a), R.C.P. (West Virginia), when the finding of a trial court in a case tried by it in lieu of a jury is against the preponderance of the evidence, is not supported by the evidence, or is plainly wrong, such finding will be reversed and set aside by a court upon appellate review.
In determining whether the entry of summary judgment by the trial court was appropriate, the appellate court reviews the grant of summary judgment de novo. The evidentiary matters -- admissions in pleadings, answers to interrogatories, depositions, affidavits -- are viewed in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party, as he is given the benefit of every reasonable doubt. If after this examination, there is no genuine issue of material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law, then summary judgment is affirmed. If after examining the evidentiary matters there is a genuine issue of material fact, then the grant of summary judgment is reversed.
A party's failure to raise a claim of judicial bias during the proceedings raises doubt about the timeliness of the issue.
Voluntary settlements are so favored that if a doubt or dispute exists between parties with respect to their rights, and all have the same knowledge or means of obtaining knowledge, concerning the circumstances involving these rights, and there is no fraud, misrepresentation, concealment, or other misleading incident, a compromise into which they thus voluntarily enter must stand and be enforced, although the final issue may be different from that which was anticipated, and although the disposition made by the parties in their agreement may not be that which the court would have decreed had the controversy been brought before it for decision.
A state of war between two countries interposes an absolute interruption and interdiction of all commercial correspondence, intercourse and dealing between the subjects or citizens of the two countries.
Defined, generally, reciprocity is the term employed in international law to describe the relation between states when each of them extends privileges and special advantages to the subjects of the other, upon condition that its own subjects shall be granted mutual and similar privileges and advantages by the latter state. Black's Law Dictionary (4th ed.) p 1435.
Section 371 of the code of civil procedure, Gen. Stat. 1901, ? 4819 (Kansas), provides for the certification of proceedings in courts of a foreign country.
A treaty is primarily a compact between independent nations. It depends for the enforcement of its provisions on the interest and honor of the governments which are parties to it. If these fail, its infraction becomes the subject of international negotiations and reclamation, so far as the injured parties choose to seek redress, which may in the end be enforced by actual war. It is obvious that with all this the judicial courts have nothing to do and can give no redress.
Those who engage in international commerce do so in full awareness that the security of their enterprise is uniquely dependent on the maintenance of stability and good order in the relationships of the nations involved. Where those relationships become strained, the resulting frictions can adversely affect all subordinate interests since traditional remedies to the enforcement of rights may also have been rendered ineffectual. In that event, it is the hand of government alone that can help restore the mutual amity upon which successful commerce depends. Since the observance of good order among nations can never be taken for granted, the potential for government involvement in international commerce remains an ever-present fact of life for those who transact their business abroad.
Article 36, 21 UST at 100-01 of Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR), Apr. 24, 1963, 21 U.S.T. 77, 596 U.N.T.S. 261 gives consular officers the right to visit a national of the sending State who is in custody or detention, and to arrange for his legal representation, but the VCCR does not make it a duty for consular officers to do so. The stated purpose of Article 36 is to facilitate the exercise of consular functions, not to mandate that consular officials will perform those functions.
22 U.S.C.S. ? 4301(a); D.C. Code Ann. ? 5-1201(a), states that the permissible scope of foreign missions' activities and the location and size of their facilities are properly subject to federal jurisdiction.
Only a "purpose standard" has the requisite acceptance among civilized nations required by the U.S. Supreme Court's Sosa standard for application in an action under the Alien Tort Statute, 28 U.S.C.S. ? 1350.
A person's official position in his foreign government is not decisive of his right to enjoy immunity from suit in United States courts. Incumbents of civil offices in a foreign government, while attached to an embassy in positions having relation to the functions of the ambassador as the representative of his nation to the government of the United States, as do others so employed, derive their right to immunity solely as members of the official or domestic household of the ambassador. Whether secretaries, military attaches, clerks, or domestic servants, their service must further and be related to the functions of the ambassador as the emissary of his country to our own. Their duties, even when merely social or personal, must contribute to the efficient performance of the important diplomatic duties of the recognized representative of a friendly state. But government officials, present here to transact business with private persons or organizations not connected with the Unites States government, have no immunity. Nor does the fact that they are provided an office in the embassy building and that their work is supervised by the ambassador extend his immunity to them. In this respect, the latter's action is but an instance of the exercise of a nondiplomatic function by a diplomatic representative.
There are differences in the extent to which individual rights may limit the foreign policy of the United States at home or abroad. In the United States, virtually all the safeguards of the United States Constitution apply to all who in the United States--citizens, alien residents, even those sojourning temporarily or in transit. Outside the United States, protection under the United States Constitution for individuals against governmental action is enjoyed by United States citizens, perhaps also by alien residents of the United States who are temporarily abroad. On the other hand, foreign nationals abroad may not succeed even with some constitutional claims.
A foreign jurisdiction's prohibition or limitation on an award for punitive damages is not, without more, enough to defeat application of the rule of comity.
If a person shall go into a foreign country to perform a particular act, with a view to elude the laws of his own country in fraudem legis, the act will not be honored.
Section 177(c) of the Compact of Free Association (Compact) provides that the government of the United States shall provide to the government of the Marshall Islands, on a grant basis, the amount of $ 150 million to be paid and distributed in accordance with the separate agreement referred to in ? 177 of the Compact, and shall provide the services and programs set forth in this separate agreement, the language of which is incorporated into this compact.
Tenn. Code Ann. ? 47-4-104(1)(e) provides that customer means any person having an account with a bank or for whom a bank has agreed to collect items and includes a bank carrying an account with another bank.
A holder in due course is one who takes an instrument for value, in good faith and without notice of infirmities or defenses. Mo. Rev. Stat. ? 400.3-302 (1986).
It is absolutely necessary for practical business transactions that the payee of money in due course of business shall not be put upon inquiry at his peril as to the title of the payor.
In construing the Uniform Commercial Code, courts have consistently recognized the necessity of finding an underlying agreement pursuant to U.C.C. ? 2-204 as a prerequisite to the application of U.C.C. ? 2-207.
13 Guam Code Ann. ? 9504(3) (1993) was amended by Pub. L. No. 26-172 (repealed and reenacted Jan. 5, 2003), which adopts the Revised Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code in Guam. Like the requirement under 13 Guam Code Ann. ? 9504(3) (1993), all sales of the collateral under the Revised Article 9 must be conducted in a commercially reasonable manner. Pub. L. No. 26-172 (repealed and reenacted Jan. 5, 2003), exhibit A, U.C.C. ? 9-610(b).
Under the "functional" test, if the vehicle's "usefulness" is destroyed by removal of the part, as it would be upon removal of an engine, the part accedes to the vehicle on its installation.
A creditor may collect the debt given in pledge, and take measures to do so. When received, the surplus must be paid over to the pledgor. Civil Code, art. 3137 (Louisiana).
The Maryland Commercial Code codifies the underlying contract implied between the bank and its customer that the bank will charge any item which is "otherwise properly payable" against the depositor's account only on the order of the depositor or of someone authorized by him. The duty of ordinary care is one of the terms codified by the Commercial Code, and neither party can disclaim this duty. Md. Code Ann., Com. Law ? 4-103(a) (2002).
Once an account debtor receives notice that an amount owed has been assigned, the debtor loses the authority to pay the assignor. Minn. Stat. ? 336.9-318(3) (1990).
The determination of what comprises a "commercial unit" will depend upon the particular facts and circumstances of each case. The definition of "commercial unit is more objective in that it is tied to usage.
When the requirements set forth in La. Rev. Stat. Ann. ? 9:2782 are satisfied and the drawer of a check dishonored for non-sufficient funds fail to tender payment, the drawer shall be liable to the payee for damages of twice the amount so owing, but in no case less than $100 plus attorney fees and court costs.
A mortgagee may maintain a personal action on his note against the debtor, and may, after judgment therein, foreclose his mortgage. But a mortgagee who has foreclosed his mortgage by good personal service may not afterwards maintain a separate action upon his promissory note.
In the appropriate circumstances, an assignee can be affirmatively required to return moneys held by it as a result of mistaken or negligent payment, as long as it has not changed its position adversely in reliance on moneys received. This rule particularly applies when an assignee bears the greater responsibility for allowing improper overpayments to be made.
Secured creditors are recognized as a class, both in law and usage, not because they can look to the debtor's property, as all creditors can, but because they have some such special security.
No violence or threat of violence need occur before a breach of the peace may be found. A non-violent, forcible entry to retake possession of a tenant's premises constitutes a breach of the peace.
Under Mont. Code Ann. ? 30-1-103, the Uniform Commercial Code may be supplemented by principles of law and equity, including the law relative to fraud and misrepresentation.
In accordance with the Uniform Commercial Code a license notice may become a term of sale, even if not part of the original transaction, if not objected to within a reasonable time. Miss. Code Ann. ? 75-2-207(2)(c).
A person having no interest in an instrument as holder or owner may not maintain an action thereon except with the assent of the owner.
Under the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), N.M. Stat. Ann. ?? 55-1-101 to -2A-532 (1961, as amended through 2005), an express warranty can be created in one of three ways: (1) any affirmation of fact or promise made by the seller to the buyer which relates to the goods and becomes part of the basis of the bargain, (2) any description of the goods which is made part of the basis of the bargain, or (3) any sample or model which is made part of the basis of the bargain. N.M. Stat. Ann. ? 55-2-313(1)(a)-(c). Common to all three types of express warranty is the requirement that an express warranty must be made as part of the basis of the bargain. This does not mean, however, that an express warranty must be specifically bargained for or even included as part of a written contract.
The official comment to W. Va. Code ? 46-2-107(1) (2007), on contracts for the sale of minerals to be severed from realty, recognizes that if the seller is the severer of timber, minerals, or structures, then Uniform Commercial Code, W. Va. Code ?? 46-1-101 to 46-11-108 (2007), law applies. Conversely, if the buyer is to sever, such transactions are considered contracts affecting land and all problems of the statute of frauds and of the recording of land rights apply to them.
For purposes of selecting a guardian or conservator for an incapacitated person, the best interests determination will require the court to take into account the closeness of the ward's relationships to the existing and prospective guardians and conservators. That inquiry gives weight to the substantive values that apparently underlie the statutory priorities for appointing guardians and conservators. If a change would likely affect the ward's physical placement, the extent to which the ward has formed relationships with caregivers or others in the ward's present living arrangement may be relevant. Other circumstances may also be relevant in particular cases.
The general rule in Louisiana is that a child support judgment remains in full force until the party ordered to pay it has the judgment modified, reduced, or terminated by the court.
Where a separation agreement is fair and reasonable and is intended as a final disposition regarding property rights or adult support, the parties will be bound by the agreement.
The statutory grounds for termination under Idaho Code ? 16-2005 are independent and if any one or more of the grounds for termination is found, termination may be granted. The best interest of the child must be considered when terminating the relationship under any provision of Idaho Code ? 16-2005. The best interest of the parent is not a consideration unless termination is sought under Idaho Code ? 16-2005(e).
While a parent's curative conduct after initiation of an action for termination of parental rights may be considered by a court on the issue of intent, it must be considered in light of the timeliness by which it occurred. Rarely would this judicially motivated repentance, standing alone, warrant a finding that an abandonment has been cured. It must be considered together with all the relevant facts and circumstances.
To warrant a decrease or increase in the amount of the alimony obligation, the change in circumstances must have occurred since the entry of the divorce decree ordering the payment of alimony.
Or. Rev. Stat. ? 109.055(2) specifically provides that a parent's duty of support is not limited because a stepparent with whom a child is residing is able to provide some support: Notwithstanding ? 109.055(1), the legal duty of a parent to provide support for a child, as otherwise required by law, shall not be affected.
Alabama law is clear that when there has been a prior custody determination, the parent seeking the change in custody must meet a stringent standard of proof. That is, the parent must prove that a change in custody will materially promote the best interests and general welfare of the child. In addition, a parent's remarriage, reformed lifestyle, and improved financial situation are not sufficient grounds to warrant an automatic change in custody.
In determining whether a change of circumstances has occurred to justify modification of a residential schedule, the court should consider several factors which have proved themselves a sound basis for the determination. Although there are no bright-line rules for determining when such a change has occurred, there are several relevant considerations: (1) whether the change has occurred after the entry of the order sought to be modified; (2) whether a change was not known or reasonably anticipated when the order was entered; and (3) whether a change is one that affects the child's well-being in a meaningful way.
The distinctions between spousal support and property division are important because, while courts have continuing power to modify spousal support, courts have no continuing power to modify a final property distribution.
The moving party in a divorce action charging desertion must prove that the offending party has the intention to desert, which is the intention that the marriage relation shall no longer exist.
Neb. Rev. Stat. ? 71-640.03 (Reissue 1996) does not grant the district court the power, in a paternity action, to change the child's surname to something other than the father's surname.
In child custody cases, the primary and overriding consideration is the best interest of the child. Factors to be considered are: (1) age, health, and sex of the child, (2) a determination of the parent that has had the continuity of care prior to the separation, (3) which parent has the best parenting skills and which has the willingness and capacity to provide primary child care, (4) the employment of the parent and responsibilities of that employment, (5) physical and mental health and age of the parents, (6) emotional ties of parent and child, (7) moral fitness of parents, (8) the home, school, and community record of the child, (9) the preference of the child at the age sufficient to express a preference by law, (10) stability of home environment and employment of each parent, and other factors relevant to the parent-child relationship.
In order for the trial court to terminate the parent-child relationship the trial court must find that there is a satisfactory plan for the care and treatment of the child. This plan need not be detailed, so long as it offers a general sense of the direction in which the child will be going after the parent-child relationship is terminated.
Courts customarily devise initial custody and visitation arrangements by engaging in a comparative fitness analysis that requires them to determine which of the available custodians is comparatively more fit than the other. This "comparative fitness" analysis does not measure the parents against the standard of perfection because the courts are pragmatic enough to understand that perfection in marriage and parenting is as evanescent as it is in life's other pursuits.  Rather, the analysis requires the courts to determine which of the parents, in light of their present circumstances, is comparatively more fit to assume and discharge the responsibilities of being a custodial parent.
While the court should evaluate the parent's habitual patterns of conduct to determine the probability of future neglect or deprivation of the child, termination of parental rights cannot be based entirely upon conditions which existed in the past, but which no longer exist.
Minn. Stat. ? 518.165 (1980) concerns the appointment of guardians in dissolution proceedings and provides as follows: In all proceedings for child custody or for dissolution or legal separation where custody or visitation of a minor child is in issue, the court may appoint a guardian ad litem from a panel established by the court to represent the interests of the child. The guardian ad litem shall advise the court with respect to custody, support and visitation. The court may enter an order for costs, fees and disbursements in favor of the child's guardian ad litem. The order may be made against either or both parties, except that any part of the costs, fees, and disbursements which the court finds the parties are incapable of paying shall be borne by the county. The language of the statute clearly contemplates that the court can, in its discretion, appoint an independent guardian.
A trial court must normally create an obligation that is based on the actual net income of a husband and complies with the statutory guideline chart. Minn. Stat. ? 518.551(5). To justify any other form of child support award, the trial court must depart from the guidelines and support its decision with careful findings under Minn. Stat. ? 518.17(4).
In an action for the dissolution of marriage, a court shall divide the property in a just and reasonable manner. Ind. Code ? 31-15-7-4(b).
Once the parties' marital property has been classified and valued, the trial court's goal is to divide the marital property in an essentially equitable manner. Tenn. Code Ann. ? 36-4-121(a)(1) (2005). A division of marital property is not rendered inequitable simply because it is not precisely equal, or because each party did not receive a share of every piece of marital property. The fairness of the trial court's approach is inevitably reflected in its results.
In construing a treaty the general rule obtains that the court is to be guided by the intention of the parties, and if the words clearly express the meaning and intention no other means of interpretation can be employed.
The Hague Convention also prescribes several alternative methods of service, including service by postal channels directly to the recipient, but allows signatory countries to object to the alternative methods.
Diplomatic immunity is premised upon recognition by the receiving State, so that no person or government may unilaterally assert diplomatic immunity. Recognition by the executive branch is essential to establishing diplomatic status.
The intention of the makers of a treaty is to be construed in the same way and under the same general rules as are used in interpreting contracts between individuals. The treaty must not only be construed as a whole, but where it is executed in two languages both are originals and must be construed together.
Once the United States Department of State has regularly certified a visitor to this country as having diplomatic status, the courts are bound to accept that determination, and that the diplomatic immunity flowing from that state serves as a defense to suits already commenced.
It is a well-established rule that wherever the rights of individuals have vested under provisions of a treaty they will not be affected by its subsequent suspension or abrogation.
Suppression of evidence is not an appropriate remedy for violations of Article 36 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, April 24, 1963, 21 U.S.T. 77, 596 U.N.T.S. 261.
